I don't get why so many people rate this a high game. There's nothing special about it at all. I got this game awhile back and thought it was pretty lame so the game went into retirement, until I decided to pull it out for the first time in many many years and play it and my thoughts remain the same.

For WCW's first video game made during the Monday Night Wars, this was pretty terrible. For starters, this is more of an arcade type of video game then a game you'd expect. The game came out in 1997, yet looks and feels like it was made in 1990, transferred to Playstation discs and called a video game.

WCW vs The World was developed and published by Japanese companies, Asmik Ace Entertainment and The Man Breeze, which would probably explain why there are only 13 WCW wrestlers in the game, while the rest of the roster is fictional Japanese wrestlers. That's right folks. Only 13 WCW wrestlers, while the rest are made-up Japanese wrestlers that have never even remotely been heard of. It's kind of a waste of a game if you're not going to include all of the WCW roster and have a bunch of created wrestlers take up space.

The only arenas you can play in are house show like arenas. There's a WCW house show like arena and the rest are Japanese arenas. To add on to the Japanese theme in this game, there's cheesy music that loops throughout the matches that sounds like it would've been acceptable in a 1980s Japanese action movie. There are 7 different modes you can play in this game that are: League Challenge, Best of Seven, Exhibition Match, Elimination Match, Tournament, League Match, and Double Title Match.

It goes without saying that the move-sets in this game are also very limited. Each wrestler only has about 6 to 7 different moves for you to use until you begin getting bored. Ultimately, once you've played one match, you've played them all. Overall, this game is just horrible. It gets boring within the first 10 minutes before you want to cut it off. A similar WCW game, made and published by the same company would come out later that year; WCW vs NWO: World Tour for the Nintendo 64. It was slightly better than vs The World, but that's not saying much.

Basically if you want to play a better WCW game than vs The World for Playstation, buy Thunder, Nitro, Mayhem, or Backstage Assault. Nitro and Backstage Assault weren't all that good but any following WCW game is 1000x more fun to play than this abomination that is WCW vs The World