Wasn't the very first Crash Bandicoot game supposed to become one of the all-time greatest Playstation games?  That's what Sony thought would happen back in the day.  After all, they promoted the game to death.  Well look at that... didn't happen!  And with good reason.  The game is horrible.  I can't believe ANYONE would prefer this junk over Sonic the Hedgehog or, especially, the Mario Bros. series.

You have to give Sony a LOT of credit for all the attention they put into Crash Bandicoot in an attempt to put the game on the same extraordinary level as Mario and Sonic, but gamers never really caught on to Crash the same way.  When you think about it, the Playstation already HAD a huge selection of games to choose from around the time Crash was released, therefore Sony didn't even NEED a mascot.  People were buying Playstation games like crazy anyway!  Crash Bandicoot never even had to exist.

You'd think for a debut game (a BIG debut, considering all the advertisements on TV commercials) Sony would have made the game a *little* easier for younger or inexperienced gamers to play.  Instead, Sony started off the Crash series with impossible bonus levels (impossible to complete AND find- I didn't even KNOW the game had bonus levels until I looked it up in the instruction booklet!)

Even if you ignore the bonus levels, the challenge overall is pretty high anyway thanks to all the difficult stages (such as the one where you're crossing a bridge way up in the sky and continue falling through the wooden cracks- a NIGHTMARE of a level!)  All the lives you earned up to this point in the game will go away.  A mascot debut game shouldn't have the difficulty THIS high because the idea is for players of ALL ages to enjoy the game.  Children will not like the nonstop frustration.

I think the biggest reason Crash Bandicoot isn't remembered today the same way Mario and Sonic's debut games are is because Crash is basically just a blend of Mario and Sonic, but featured in a 3D world.  Think about it.  Crash collects berries throughout the game (Mario collects coins, Sonic collects rings).  Crash has a spin attack (Mario and Sonic already had spin attacks YEARS before Crash's existence).  Sony just didn't have enough creative ideas to come up with something entirely different, and that's why most gamers tend to ignore Crash Bandicoot.  When you already have the best (Mario and Sonic) you don't need imitations.

Crash Bandicoot may have improved later on (not enough of an improvement to earn its mascot reputation, however) but the series certainly did NOT start with a bang.  I will always remember the very first Crash Bandicoot game as being this uninteresting, frustrating experience.  Heck, just the fact that only 62 reviewers have submitted reviews for the game right here on amazon goes to show Crash Bandicoot's first adventure was meant to be gone and forgotten.  Add to the fact that right now in the year 2006 NO ONE is talking about ANY Crash Bandicoot game anymore.  This means you can ignore Crash Bandicoot entirely, and not really miss out on anything.