...in more ways than one.  Besides the overall poor quality of the game, there was that camera!  Honestly, whoever designed that thing needs to be smacked with a wet fish.
I played levels 1 through 10, and then had to stop just before the end of the game because I was nauseated and had an eyestrain headache.  I am not exaggerating.
The camera has a tendency to swirl around when you need it to stay still, and to sit still when you need it to move.  The grainy, pixelated graphics and complete lack of distinguishing features in the levels make it not only very easy to get lost, but also very hard on the eyes.  When you need to jump across platforms or walk AROUND something, that's when things really get bad.  Flik leaves almost no shadow on the ground when he jumps, so your jumps will usually be blind leaps of faith.  The other problem is his feet.  He dangles his feet so low when he jumps, that 9 times out of 10 you will miss a platform because his feet won't plant on it.  And, when he does land, he won't stop running, which will send him promptly stepping right off the other end of the thing and forcing you to do the jump all over again.
The other problem is the camera angles when walking around something.  When you walk around to the other side of a large object, for some idiotic reason, the camera does not follow you.  As a result, you are sitting there with your entire screen filled in by this object while you can't see Flik on the other side.  Now, as if that situation is not bad enough, picture yourself having to do a platform jump while your view of Flik is completely blocked by a large rock on the screen, or being hit by an enemy that you can't see because the camera won't move.  Instead of turning with you, you must stop for about 5 seconds after turning to allow the camera to "catch up."  At the same time, the camera has a tendency to turn even while you're just running straight ahead in a single direction, which results in you being completely reversed.  It's completely disorienting, and with the bland, nearly identical levels, you can find yourself lost and irritated very frequently.
It's all fun and games, until you've developed a tension headache trying to look at the bad graphics and camera angles, and flung your controller across the room because you just don't feel like attempting that same jump for the 89th time.  Please, stay away from this one.  Don't become an accomplice to anymore game companies trying to cash in on a movie franchise.