Who created this game and why? I get the concept and it's a really good one. Then why did I give it one star? This game is created for people who find Call of Duty and Halo so easy they get bored and refuse to play them. The mini-games must be beaten absolutely flawlessly or you don't get any points whatsoever. Sometimes you even lose points for not absolutely mastering the mini-game. If you're 99% perfect, sorry no points. The biggest flaw in this game is that it has to be four players. If you don't have four players then the computer will take over the rest. Be warned, the computer always wins every single mini game. There's a choice for computer skill...easy, normal, or hard...huh? What is hard skill? Does that mean the game is hard for the computer player or the computer player is hard for you to beat? No explanation whatsoever. But, it does not matter, Ive tried all three settings multiple times and it makes no difference in the computer's amazing flawless skill at mastering the game. The point of the game is to get 20 coins, by absolutely mastering the mini-games as flawlessly as inhumanly possible, then randomly landing on the space where Toad is selling stars for 20 coins. Watch out, there's also a space where, if they have 50 coins, other players can steal your star. They should call this game Star Stealers. The only real trick to the game is to be the one who lands on the star stealing spot the most times...and thus steal everyone else's stars. There's no friendly competition here...it's all about bing underhanded. If you don't have 50 coins to steal a star you can, for zero coins, steal coins from other players. this game always leads to everyone ganging up on the player who is doing the best. There's no skill involved to winning the game over all because it's all about who's lucky enough to land on the star stealing spot the most times. One turn your in first place and the next your in fourth, but when you're in fourth you're stuck. Whoever happens to have the most stars when the game ends wins the game no matter how poorly you played the game. Oh, and don't forget they the shortest version of the game takes 45 minutes minimum. The longest version takes 3+ hours. Ridiculous and frustrating to no end. Its a game that takes a minimal of an hour to lose. No thank you! You should try Chef's Luv Shack, it's based on the same concept but you can actually win the mini-games once in a while.