In "Kill Bill: Vol. 2", David Carradine described Superman as follows, "Not a very good comic; not particularly well-drawn."  Well, I suppose if Caine from Kung Fu is talking about this character, then the game must be cool too, right?  It's been almost 10 years since Titus released the most unorthodox game to ever grace our solar system.  It must be good, since we're still talking about all these years later.

Seriously, there's a lot to like about SUPERMAN 64.  You won't need any sort of defect warranty, because the second you flip the POWER switch, it works every time.  It's refreshing to buy an electronic device, knowing that it's electrical circuits will never fail you.

Equally cool is that Superman flies in this game...I like it when he flies.  Every time I pop in this cartridge, I'm even more eager to watch  the Christopher Reeve movies...all 4 of them.

The plot is revealed to the gamer with great restraint.  You see, there are bizarre, murky images that even David Lynch or Stanley Kubrick wouldn't be able to visualize.  For example, Lois Lane and Jimmy Olsen are confined to, um...a blurry contraption that kidnaps them; or does it imprison them?  I personally couldn't tell if it was really Jimmy and Lois, because it's very hard for the gamer to completely understand the cutscenes.  But isn't it neat to figure it out for yourself?  You see, because the graphics are so confusing and blurry, you get to keep playing again to unearth the game's secrets.  And don't worry about completing SUPERMAN 64 in a short period of time, either.  It's a tough game, and there are few games that equal its challenge.

What's most remarkable is how the game also addresses Superman's emotional state.  I'm sure Kal-El struggles to use his powers properly; it's not easy for a near-invincible alien to do the right thing 24/7.  Titus has tackled this concept very faithfully.  You see, when Superman flies, he won't always do what the N64 Controller tells him to do.  A free-spirited main character...brilliant!

Lastly, Superman's powers are present here.  He has his eye-lasers and wind/freeze breath.  That's always neat, huh?  But what's even more most fascinating is that The Man of Steel --- according to this game --- has the ability to manipulate the physical dimensions in which he exists.  He sometimes will be flying casually through the sky, and then have a sudden urge to fly through the buildings of Metropolis.  How cool is that?  On the other side of this spectrum, there are moments where Superman will get stuck in a wall or a drainage ditch......you know, I still haven't figured out how to beat those sections of the game.  I wonder, is there a higher power known only to Superman?  I ask, because Titus refuses to give us easy answers to this puzzling N64 entry.  The most gifted scientists, researchers, cryptologists, artists, and gamers will not be able to solve this enigma.

SUPERMAN 64 is one of the most unforgettable and original experiences in all of gaming!

*****THIS REVIEW WAS MEANT TO BE SARCASTIC AND SATIRICAL.  I AM NOT RESPONSIBLE IF YOU BUY THIS GAME!*****