As I expected, this game has good reviews, but does FF7 deserve that praise? No.

It was my birthday, and I wanted a new console and a cool game to go with it. I remembered getting a Genesis with Sonic 1, and having a SNES felt wrong until I got Super Mario World.

I got my mom to get me a PS1 and FF7. All the kids were raging about it. And it was in 3D! Wow, just imagine FF6, but in 3D. Oh man.

Thus began my unfortunate exploration of the JRPG. (I hadn't played FF6 at this point, but I played Chrono Trigger.) The backgrounds looked nice. The music was "epic" and the sound was trash. A lot of the sound was trash. It sounds worse than a SNES game. And what's the deal with the Popeye-looking characters? But something was compelling about the game. I wanted to know what happened next.

The only reason I played games as a kid was to see what happened next. I only wanted a new weapon in Mega Man because it was cooler than the M-Buster. It was a fetish. Mastering a challenge to achieve fun was foreign to me.

The video game industry is an industry--it exists to make money. If a publisher puts out a game that makes money but isn't strictly a videogame, they WILL do it. What was Square's motivation when they developed this game? Tell a story? Let players express themselves through cunning materia strategies and complex boss fights and complex dungeons? Something else? I don't know.

Let's look at what we've got. The game lets you start easy by pitting you against 2 weak enemies. One sword strike will kill them, or you can throw lightning. I think they even give you some inventory items. You can safely see how the combat works. You get to name Cloud and Barrett anything you want. This makes the game personal, but I don't know anyone who did that. It's irrelevant because the bastard is still going to have his existential crisis and behave in ways that you might not choose.

Eventually, you have a boss fight that, thanks to mistranslation, tells you to ATTACK WHILE it's tail is UP. If you do this, the boss will hit a party member, causing you to do the battle the opposite of how they intended. You might even game over. After that, more dialog, and you get to make a choice with Aeris: "You'd better get out of here" or "Nothing...hey, listen...". This affects a cutscene WAY, WAY down the line from here. I never made the connection until recently.

The materia system lets you customize your spells. If you want a mage, you load him with spells, his HP decreases, and his MP increases. It's a good idea to change his "row", making him stand further away from the enemy, thus killing your melee damage, but protecting you from melee damage. The game doesn't handhold; it lets you figure out the finer points of the materia system. I liked how FF6 let your characters permanently learn spells, but FF7 are tied to materia. It's not a bad system, but considering the game is 60 hours long, you might master it before then and get bored.

For years, I've gone back and forth with myself about whether FF7 is good. I've concluded it's partly responsible for making games too casual. Despite that it's an RPG you don't get to make meaningful choices. You get to make very few choices about what Cloud does outside combat, and most of them don't really matter. If we're going to try elevating videogames, it would behoove JRPG fans to demand more choices so they can truly role-play their own "anime hero". I'd recommend giving players choices in story that let them end up a pathetic failure or butt of the joke in their own story. Fail states are important.

Of course that would take a master stroke in storytelling, something videogames aren't known for. Videogames are not literature. For every decent videogame story, there are 10 books as satisfying as eating a meal. Game stories are intentional experiences that happen a specific way. If they don't happen that way, then the designer has to account for that, or face an endless web of possibilities. Games are dumb at telling stories. Even games that give you plenty of dialog options are bogus because the end result is the same. At the end of FF7, there is only one outcome. This is a role-FORCING game.

I'm fine with games having cutscenes per se. If this game was combat, anime, combat, anime, combat anime without any illusions of choice, I'd be perfectly happy with that.

I should've got an N64.