Oh, here they come! Can you hear it? The wimpy cries of the thousands and thousands of fanboys and fangirls of this failure of an RPG! I can certainly hear them, because I've been listening to them for the past few years. I will admit, I was excited to play this game at first, seeing as I never played it before Christmas of 2008...but honestly, I wish I had never played it at all. Why? Well, stick around, sit back, shut up and read.

STORY: 2/10
Atrocious. Simply atrocious. You start the game as an ex-SOLDIER named Cloud (default name, seeing as you have the option to name your main character), who is currently an employed gun for a resistance group called AVALANCHE. Why these groups and names have big, capital letters for seemingly no reason is beyond me, seeing as they don't stand for anything. Along the way, you'll meet and greet a number of people who have nothing to do with what you'll be doing in the current area you're in, get pissed off with the inability to comprehend even the slightest bit of dialogue spitting from the mouths of these characters, and finally come to the climax of the game, facing yet ANOTHER completely overrated villain in a battle that will last about thirty minutes...but not because it's hard. It's not. I have so many problems with this game's story...okay, I have a lot of problems with this game PERIOD. You get a total of 9 characters in your party, and guess what? Seven of them have absolutely NOTHING to do with the main storyline whatsoever! The only reason they exist is for party-filling, seeing as they completely blew away any resemblance of a cast and crew of characters that actually mean something to...well, ANYTHING. Two of them you don't even technically have to get in your party to begin with! You can literally beat the entire game--all 13-17 hours of it--with the drooling retards you pick up along the way. The game is so stale and boring in terms of taking your hand and walking you through the story, and everywhere you turn, you can see something you can bitch about for hours. Party members included.

GAMEPLAY: 1/10
Same thing as every other Final Fantasy game released before its time. There's seriously nothing revolutionary about this game. It's the same boring, lazy turn-based system you're used to, except they actually find ways to make it even less enjoyable. The movement of the battles themselves feels and looks glitched, and every time you use an attack, skill, or spell, you'll be sitting there waiting for them to finish with your thumb up your ass. Oh, and if you plan on summoning a powerful magic creature from the Summon materia...well, I certainly hope you stocked up on food, drinks, and toilet paper; you'll be sitting there staring at the atrociously-long summon animations for the next hour and a half before you can even make your next move.

PRESENTATION: 0/10
What are you talking about? This game is CLEARLY not even finished. Do you know how many glitches, bugs, and excruciating errors I found while playing this game? Hundreds. The sickest part? I didn't go out of my way to find them. They came to me. The character models look ridiculous, nobody has anything interesting to say no matter where you are in the game, the battles are boring and unworthy to the franchise's name, and you'll be lucky if you can even make it to the end without exploiting a glitch or two. Or ten. Not only that, but the game is WAY too easy. I literally played through the entire game--story and all--in less than 20 hours. In that time, I never once died or even lost a member of my party (if you're not counting Aeris, seeing as she dies in a cutscene). And hey, if you're having trouble with something, just exploit one of the hundreds of glitches in this game to allow yourself the ability to walk through walls, gain infinite money and items, level your entire party up to 99 in a single fight, deal millions of damage to an enemy with a single hit, or even reset every single in-game switch so you can replay absolutely everything in the game over again with all the stats, items, and equipment you already have. But seriously, who the hell would play through THIS monstrosity anything more than once? This unfinished, broken piece of cow dung is not worth the time.

SOUNDTRACK: 0/10
What soundtrack? It's just a bunch of clicks, screeches, and otherwise infuriating sounds. It's not music. It's a collaboration of anger-inducing noises that will have your TV muted in less than thirty seconds, or your money back! GUARANTEED!

OVERALL RATING: 1/10
This game is even lucky I can give it the rating I did. It's especially lucky that Amazon.com's ability to rate its products only comes in five stars. If it was a standard 1-10 rating, I'd hack my computer to give it less than .5/10, seeing as I can't stand this absolute travesty of a video game. It's a downright abomination to the world, and a big slap to the face of anybody who was seriously into Final Fantasy, like myself. I'm glad I didn't play this game until years after it came out. If I had played it back then, I probably would have been just like all of the other sniveling fanboys and girls and considered it the greatest game of all time. You can't rate a game based on how well it sold, and you can't rate a game depending on the graphics. Why? Because both of those factors are meaningless when it comes to a true review. I strongly recommend that anybody who is interested in buying this game should steer WAY clear of it; it is not worth even the effort to post a picture of it here on Amazon. It's not worth a penny out of your pocket.