I'd like to preface my review by saying I had heard A LOT about this game. The main character, Cloud, is pretty famous and pops up in a variety of games (like Kingdom Hearts) so I was really interested in trying it out. That, coupled with the high reviews on gaming sites like IGN, which quotes that FFVII is "The RPG by which all others are to be measured, FFVII is a cinematic wonder" had me thrilled to try this out. For some perspective, IGN quotes my favorite game of all time, Zelda Ocarina of Time, as "IGN64 reviews the biggest game of the decade. Does Zelda 64 live up to the hype?" I never owned a PS until the PS2 & PS3, so I was stoked to see this title come out on the PS network for $9.99.

Now that you know a little bit about what I was expecting from this game, I'll provide a little bit about my gaming style/history before I go into the game review. I'm a huge RPG fan, and I like a variety of games in that style (turn-based, timer, real time strategy, action). I've played a few FF games (III, X, Tactics, Tactics II), and I liked them all, except for X, which I found to be a little too easy, albeit very pretty. I also really enjoy the Dragon Quest games. I've been into video games since I was 5, and apart for a work-induced stint of abstinence in college, I still enjoy video games when time permits.

As soon as I started playing this game I kept telling myself, it must get better. It's just a slow start, surely the story picks up? I pushed on for a few hours, going through Clouds background story and getting an idea of the main story arch before I finally gave it up as a bad job. I'm glad I only spent $9.99 to try this game out, and not $100+.

Graphics:
I'm not sure what IGN is talking about, but these graphic are terrible. Yes, I know the game is from 1997, but Zelda OCT came out in 1998 and it's graphics have held up to the test of time much better. Although the PS and N64 (pre-graphics expansion) are supposed to be comparable, a PS example of an older game with much better graphics is Chrono Cross (1999 PS). The majority of the background for FFVII is a muddy brown that looks sort of like mulch. Also, since it was being released on the PS network, Sony and Square Enix could have taken the time to revamp the graphics (like Nintendo did for OCT on the Game Cube) instead of releasing a game whose graphics are so bad I get a bit of a headache on the newer TVs. Maybe it would look better on an old TV? Who knows. The cut scenes have slightly better graphics, which are almost comparable to Zelda OCT's in game graphics.

Story:
I wasn't really impressed by it, although it it's an interesting concept. I've done my best to be vague in this section so that potential buyers won't have the story spoiled for them.

GOOD/Unique:
When you boil it down, you are basically fighting as an eco-terrorist, and that's an interesting concept.

BAD:
The character integration into the story is very poor. When you look at all the character's background stories, it doesn't make sense that they are all working together. If the game spent more time with them discussing WHY they have their common goal of being ECO-terrorists it would fit better. Aside from the fact that they are all eco-terrorists who live in the same beat down community, they really have nothing in common.

I did not like the characters I had been introduced to, before I quite playing. Cloud is incredibly angsty and self-centered in the beginning, and I found all the social scenes centered on him to be unpleasant. His friendship with Tifa doesn't make much sense to me either. Tifa is a sweet person, and portrayed as kind-hearted, yet she seems to be obsessed with Cloud who is nothing like her emotionally. Barret, um, can we say racist? Barret, the only black person in the game, consistently beats his chest like a gorilla. Yes, let's make the black person look and act like a gorilla.

Gameplay:

Mediocre.

This is the most important part for some people, although I tend to find the story to be nearly as important. For me, if the story is bad, it would take phenomenal game play to keep me engaged in the game. The game play here was average, it has a pretty typical timer set-up, nothing to write home about. I'm not sure if this game invented timer play, if so Kudos to Square Enix. The timer play did make the beginning more interesting in that you were literally thrown into the game with no instructions, so it took a little while to get a hang of the game play. Once I figured out the game play though (~1hr of game time, most of which is scenes) I quickly grew tired of this game.

Summary:
This game has average game play, terrible story, horrific graphics even for a late 90's game, and pretty pathetic characters. I played for 3-4 hours and then gave up on it. My free time is limited, and I don't waste time on games that aren't fun because "they might get better." Maybe FFVII really picks up in hour 4. All I know is that I was very disappointed in the game, and I'm quite incredulous about the higher reviews here on Amazon and on other gaming sites.

UPDATE:
Barrett - when Cloud is introduced to headquarters, Barrett beats on his chest like a gorilla which I found to be a poor choice for the only black character in the game to be doing. However, his overall portrayal may not be that racist, as I only played for 4 hours and many claim he is treated better in the later game.

Despite the comments and emails I've gotten about this review, I still leave it as 1-star. Without the nostalgia goggles I didn't enjoy the story, the graphics, the gameplay, or the characters.