I hate this game so much.
I was warned that the game is difficult to learn. I read the whole 170 page manual before installing it.  I read the 40 page tutorial a second time before playing.  After four hours of trying  to get the game to work I gave up.  I have an engineering degree from MIT  ('93), so I'm not stupid.
The interface was the worst I have ever seen  for any non-Unix software.  Nothing makes sense and C3PO stands there and  insults you the whole time without giving any help.
As it turns out, I  had bad luck the first time I went through the tutorial.  I had started the  game in a situation in which I could do nothing.  Except that I didn't know  that since I had never played before.
Imagine a game of chess with a  twist.  Instead of all 16 pieces, you flip a coin to see if you get any  particular piece--heads you get the piece, tails you don't.  Sound  interesting?  Now imagine that you don't get your king.  Now what?  That's  what the game is like.  Actually, it's worse.  Imagine that you are told  what the pieces do in a book 170 pages long, but that you can't really see  them do anything.  You can't even see the board.  You have to provide 100  detailed instructions about how to move each piece and the instructions  don't make any sense.  For instance, I had a mineral mine that could go  through space, but I couldn't make spaceships. You don't know why you  lost.
LucasArts should never have associated with this garbage.  I  thought that I would never buy another LucasArts game again without playing  it first.  But then I bought Rebel Alliance.  Now I know I'll never buy  another LucasArts game without playing it first.
I tried to give the game  away, but my friend gave it back after one day.  He said it was the worst  game ever. It took him 40 minutes to figure out how to quit (he goes to  Harvard). I tried another friend, but he gave it back (Ph. D. Penn State  Industrial Engineering). I tried another friend (Psych major) who gave it  to somebody else who finally threw it away, but kept the action figure.  I  guess that last guy never played the game because after being insulted for  four hours, I don't know how anybody can like C3PO ever again.
I hate  this game so much.  I regret ever getting it.  In fact, I couldn't play  other LucasArts games that I love for 3 months until I got over the  loathing toward that company. I wish I could give it negative stars. I have  yet to meet somebody (flesh and blood) who likes the game.  My only wish  now is that I had burned the game slowly and watched the CD melt.  This  game is a case study in horrible design and horrible interface.  I wish I  could say that I learned something positive from the experience, so, well,  nevermind.