It doesn't make any sense.  How can this game be considered a classic?  It has WAY too many flaws for people to continue naming it "best game of all-time" or "best Castlevania game you'll ever play".
I don't think so.  If you want a "real" Castlevania game, go play Castlevania 64 for the N64.  That's how a Castlevania game should be done.  Not like Symphony Of The Night, which is basically a complete disaster with its many inexplicable problems.
Don't believe me?  You will soon enough.  First and foremost, Konami must think all Castlevania fans are forgetful and dumb.  You see, the game begins with you playing as Richter, and you're back in the final stage of the previous Castlevania game fighting Dracula.  This is ridiculous.  I don't want to play THAT game, I want to play Symphony Of The Night.  You don't have to redo the final fight with Wart in the beginning of Super Mario Bros. 3.  So you shouldn't have to start off Symphony Of The Night by going back and fighting the final boss in the previous game.  What the hell is wrong with Konami?  This whole Richter/Dracula thing should have been removed.
After that's over, the REAL game begins, but unfortunately that's not true.  It doesn't begin yet.  Immediately a screen is shown of Alucard running to the castle (which you unfortunately have no control over).  Once he's inside and the gate closes, you can now play as him, but wait a minute.  There's no music playing in the background.  A game can't really start if there's no music, because the absence of music makes a game feel empty and unexciting.
Luckily, my worst fear didn't come true (that Konami forgot to put music in the game) and you just have to move forward a few steps and battle a few more foes before the music kicks in.  It's about time!  You had me worried there!
But then more problems arise.  In the same little area where the music kicks in, you encounter these zombies that come out of the ground and walk towards you, and many times you never see these zombies coming until it's too late and you take a hit.  Pesky little things like this are just one of many reasons this game is almost completely unbearable.
Eventually you meet up with a young lady named Maria.  She's extremely attractive, and knows just how to push the right flirting buttons.  And that's a big problem.  The way she seems to come on to Alucard and practically drool all over him is such a turn-on to the player that it's very difficult to move forward and continue on with the quest.  After a Maria encounter, you can't stop thinking about her beautiful pale face, those big beautiful eyes, that smooth relaxing voice, and so then what happens after that is, when you are in the middle of a serious battle, you almost always die because you can't stop thinking about Maria's beautiful face.
Konami must not understand that mostly boys play video games.  I shouldn't have to say it, but I think it's obvious that the creators of Maria are disappointed in themselves for creating such a good-looking woman, because one look at Maria distracts boys everywhere.  They shouldn't have made her look so pretty.  Because of this, only the strongest male gamers will be able to complete this Castlevania adventure.  Had she been less attractive, guys would be able to better concentrate on the game.
You're probably thinking by now "Alright, talk about the actual GAME!"  Okay, I will, but you won't like what I have to say.  It's just really painful for me to pick out all the problems in this supposed classic.  Basically, it all boils down to one thing.  The fact that some weapons in this game are incredibly slow, weak and almost useless.  Yes, I'm talking about the Jewel Sword and the Sword Of Hador.  Konami never should have put these two weapons in the game.  But because they did, we have no choice but to put up with them, and I have no choice but to complain.  These two weapons really drag the game down.
I could go on and on about the many problems you will see in this game.  Twice in the game you will have to fight a guy who looks exactly like you, which if you ask me, lacks creativity.  Konami wasted a good opportunity right there to come up with new and exciting bosses to fight, but no, they had to go with the old predictable mirror match.
Many enemies have blood fiercely squirting out of their bodies when you attack them, forcing me and my children to look away from the TV screen.  Because me and my children understand that if we look at the screen and see this violence, we will throw up all over ourselves and even worse, we might even have trouble making it through the day without screaming in fear that the same brutal treatment might happen to us if we're not careful.  A little bit of blood is fine, but some of the blood in Symphony Of The Night is a bit too graphic and plentiful.  It's enough to terrorize you.  So the best thing to do would be to try and jump over these bloody enemies so you won't have to attack them, though in many places, avoiding enemies won't be easy.
Finally, the biggest problem.  The second castle in the game is just the first castle turned upside down, so it's not really a new castle.  Now that's what I call clumsy.  Between the smutty actions of Maria and the blood all over the place, it feels like I'm watching a porno blood fest.  Not a pretty thought, is it?  So as you can see, many problems prevent this game from being a classic.  Don't even think about buying it.