I rue the day this title came out for Playstation. It was considered so original, it influenced many, many stealth-type games that followed it. Too many.

Where do I start with the things I hate about this game?

1. It's way too difficult. You get awfully sick of hearing "Snaaaaaaaaaaaaaake!" every 10 seconds. There should have been a way to ratchet down the difficulty even further for 'tards like me. "Easy" mode really isn't.  Sheesh.  I wonder what "Hard" mode was like.

2. Way too many cutscenes! I've never seen anything like it. There's one cut scene that goes on for like 30 minutes. This has got to be the talkiest video game I've ever played.  And these dialogues are all so silly, and you're pretty much forced to watch them or you won't be able to understand what's going on. In fact, I would say that most of your time in this game will be spent watching cutscenes. It's not so much a video game as a movie in which you are occasionally allowed to press buttons.

3.  I hate video games that won't let you pause at certain moments, as this won't.  I wouldn't advise playing this if you have a wife or mother who's gonna occasionally ask you to help her in the kitchen:  you'll find yourself saying, "Yeah, I'll help you after this scene finishes . . . in about half an hour!  Not allowed to pause it for some reason!"

4.  Even more excusably, there's not way to pause the cutscenes.  You can't even pause the codec dialogues!

5.  There are many scenes in which the game disables your weapons and accessories for no logical reason other than that if it didn't, the scene would be too easy.

6.  There are far too many boss monsters.  It's like every other encounter is a boss monster.  The first part of the game (say, up until the first encounter with Revolver Ocelot) is pretty great, but that's not representative of the game:  after that it's basically an unending series of boss monsters.

7.  Frustratingly, you have to fight several boss monsters twice because they never seem to die.  Having to "kill" the same boss monster over and over again makes you feel like you're going in circles.

8.  The principals having these deep discussions about delicate emotional issues while an enemy is shooting at them or while a timer is ticking down. Was this written by a 14-year-old?

9.  The system for flattening oneself against a wall is not ready for prime time:  most of the time you find yourself flattened against the wall and you didn't mean to do this.  This will get you killed several times as you are thus basically standing still, allowing your enemies to shoot you.  It should have been running up to a wall in combination with pressing L1 or something.

10.  The way your guy stands there uselessly for about two seconds after choking somebody.

11.  The way you can easily bypass critical lifesaving devices, such as the thermal goggles.

12.  The way the game takes all these cheap shots at you:  you can't look ahead because your radar is "jammed" and then you get shot by a security camera.  Or blown up by a mine.

13.  The way you are prevented, after having killed a boss, from going back into the battle area and collecting the stuff you didn't collect during the battle.  Is it there or not?  So why can't I get it now?

14.  The absurd anti-nuclear message at the game's finale.