I *hate* this game.  Let me state right away: graphics in a WWE wrestling game mean absolutely NOTHING to me.  The graphics in WWF War Zone are pretty good (and original, back in the day) but who cares?  It seems the only thing wrestling video game fans today are interested in is looking at their television set in amazement because the wrestlers look realistic, and their movements true to life.  Who cares?  When War Zone first hit the scene in the late 90's yeah, the graphics WERE cool.  Not now, especially when the only thing the WWE cares about these days is impressing gamers with realism.

You know, WWF War Zone was the very first game that brought the graphics to a whole new 3D level.  A whole new level of crap.  You see, it makes me sick that the WWE wrestling games for 10 years now are all basically the same.  Let me explain why this is a bad thing.

You know when you buy an updated sports video game (such as football or hockey) and the only thing different about it from the previous year are a couple new player names, and maybe some new options here and there?  That's exactly what the WWE has done with their video games.  For the last 10 years all the WWE games have been WAY too similar to each other, and it completely sucks out the fun when every new wrestling game that hits the market only offers a slight difference over the previous years game.

It doesn't matter if it's Smackdown, Smackdown 2, WWE Raw for the Xbox, WWE Wrestlemania for the Gamecube, etc.  Those games are all the same- a lousy attempt to impress gaming and wrestling fans with realism.  I'm all for realism, but it DOES NOT MATTER in a wrestling game.  A wrestling game is like any other video game in that it SHOULD be all about having fun with it.  And I can't have fun with a wrestling game released today that, more or less, is exactly the same as a wrestling game from 10 years ago.  It makes me sick to think 10 years later, hardly anything has changed in the world of wrestling video games.

Before WWF War Zone, you had WWF In Your House which, to this day, is a game that completely stands apart from other WWE wrestling games (along with WWF Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game).  Before those games you had the button-smashing delight of WWF Raw on the Super NES and Sega Genesis.  Once again, the formula in those old-school wrestling games didn't stick around and overstay its welcome.  Over 10 years with games just like WWF War Zone IS too much.

The very second WWF War Zone came out on the Playstation and N64, it all went wrong.  Game companies got the idea that people wanted realism in their wrestling games, so from that point on ALL the WWE games had to be about having realistic-looking gameplay and wrestler appearances, and the fun factor washed away like sandcastles on the beach.  It's hard to have fun with a game when the year before you were playing the same thing.  After a while you get sick of it.

WWF War Zone is an innovative game for taking wrestling to new heights, but it was the WORST thing that could have happened.  Graphically, WWF War Zone is the first of its kind.  Being the first means it's bound to have some flaws (despite the fact that existing is its biggest flaw!)  Another MAJOR problem with the game is how SLOW it is.  After the adrenaline-rushing WWF In Your House, we now experience wrestlers walking around in the ring VERY slowly.  Painfully slow, in fact.  Going from WWF In Your House to WWF War Zone is like going from a cheetah race to a snail race.  Your grandparents can wrestle each other faster than the wrestlers in this game.  To be fair, the ONLY thing WWF wrestling games today have improved is the speed.  Everything else is the same as it was 10 years ago.

WWF War Zone also started the popular "create a wrestler" mode.  But it doesn't matter because, as I mention above, wrestling games for 10 years have had that option.  It's an option that has lost its charm because of overkill, and it's time game companies got rid of it, or did something to drastically change it.  It was a fun and interesting idea at first but now, 10 years later, I don't want to have it in a wrestling game ever again.

I tried getting rid of WWF War Zone at a yard sale but no one wanted it, so I had to get rid of it by throwing it away.  No way was I keeping such a crappy game in the same shelf with MUCH more deserving Playstation games.

If only WWE was more innovative with their wrestling games today, instead of repeating the same formula every year, I wouldn't have to keep going back and pointing out WWF War Zone as the game where the downfall began.  After 10 years, updating the graphics and adding just a few new options and wrestlers doesn't get the job done.