I first bought this game in a Hastings book store a long time ago and I've been a Mk fan for quit some time, so I went ahead and bought it thinking "This is great! I've got MK trilogy that has all of my favorite characters in it. And Midway makes really great games.(LOL) And I managed to find it in a five dollar bin. This is truly a lucky day for me."
Until I played it....

Then as time went on, I kept it in my basement, and then one day I decided to bring it out because I hadn't played it in a while and I forgotten all of the moves. So I went to the options menu and put it on a pansy level so I can get the feel for it again. Then I remembered why I put it the basement. What I should have done was bury it in the back yard, never to see the light of day again.
As soon as the first round said "FIGHT" I might as well thrown in the towel. The game was gracious enough thou to just stand there for two seconds and let me get one shot in even thou I was 99.9% dead anyway, I mean, what the F is the point?!

I don't even think the skill level even works.
The only way to make it up the ladder without facing brutalities and stage fatalities is if you were to play as Kintaro, (he's your best bet.)
If you play as Motaro you will get your a** handed to you literally! (Pun intended).  The A.I. actually puts any character to uppercut him and send him flying almost out of view of the screen! But if you were to uppercut the A.I. Motaro, he only staggers, can't have him flying into the air, oh no, that would require fairness in the game.

MK has been known for the copy and paste routine on characters, and MK Trilogy is the crowning achievement of it. The male and female ninjas, and if a guy has a bike helmet and armor pads that they bought down over at Wal-Mart and calling them cyborg ninjas, you know this is a cheap a** game. What the hell was this game made off of, a 50$ budget? I guess Wal-Mart was selling helmets and bike armor pads on a half off sale.

If the Matrix was to take a glitchy $***, I'm sure that it would look something like this. For every time it loads a match, I can actually hear my PS one groaning like it was trying to pass a cinder block.
If that PS could talk it'd say, "Oh lord... please... help me!" :(...

I can see now why it was in five dollar bin, but I remember that there was a trash bin next to it, and if I knew then before I bought it, I would have said; "Hey, this is in the wrong bin."

Its hard to take this gory game seriously if that douche bag Dan Fordan's big fat head keeps popping out saying "Toasty." I wouldn't be a damn bit surprised if I saw Charley Sheen pop-out of the corner and say; "Already got your money dude."

And when it says on the back of the game. "Seven humiliating stage fatalities that sends your opponent plummeting to there embarrassing death." That's you, your the opponent. The A.I. will make sure of that.

As for brutalities, who the hell takes the time to flush there life away to memorize twelve different moves just to do one lousy move so a guy explodes? Wow. I never seen five skulls and twenty femur bones pop out of a guy a before. Apparently Ed or any of the designers of this pile of $*#& game, doesn't know a damn thing about the human anatomy. Its bad enough that you have to remember all the fatalities and trademark moves, now this?

To sum it up.
The game play was awful.
The A.I. is cheap.
Glitchy as hell.
They copy and paste the characters as they always do.
The option menu is useless.
The video resolution looks like it was filmed through a potato.
The audio is awful.
And the story sucked.

Forget water-boarding. Forget Guantanamo bay. That would be considered a health spa compared to this game. S*#$, force a terrorist to play this game for 8 hours strait, and he'll tell you on how to cure any form of cancer.

I can't believe how these retailers on here are pricing this POS at $99.99. Hell, there's some retailers on here that are ranging this torture device, at $150.00. Yeah, good luck with that guys. You let me know how well that works out for ya.
Any poor bastard that was unfortunate enough that played this atrocious, inhumane, intolerable game, with a brain stem knows, this game couldn't be given away.

This game is ranked right next to the Jumanji board game, both should be thrown into the sacred ark, welded shut, put into a create, and shipped to a warehouse somewhere, and there it will be "dealt with TOP... MEN." Because this game will melt your face off while you're screaming in agony.

Looking back on my teenager days where I was young, dumb, full of ***,  and didn't know any better, I was easily manipulated into crap like this. So of course I would defend games that I didn't know anything about. Of course I would deny that I've been taken advantage of.  And now we see the same types of teens that are doing this all over again. They'll read this review and say, "Oh how dare you talk that way about MK! Even thou I didn't grow up with it... bla, bla, bla." I doubt that any one of them ever played this game on a PS 1. They'd argue that they'd played it of off their iphone or somethin', and say it's the same thing. NO! By then, the bugs have been fixed and it's NOT THE SAME. YOU'RE PLAYING IT FROM A PHONE! It has to be from a P...S...1! Hell to them they'd considered it a retro game. They can't judge a game accurately that wasn't in their childhood. All they can do is look at it from a future point of view. As for us 80's babies, we grew up with this crap. It's only right that we judge it from OUR timeline, no one else's.  And it's hard even to this day, to let go of something that, even thou I've been scammed by marketing-ploys by some cheap broken product, I grew up with them. But ultimately, you have to say to yourself, that I've been had and it's time to let go.

I would not recommend this game to anyone, unless you enjoy yelling at your TV screen all night, then look no further.
But if you care about your sanity, and want to keep it intact. Then stay the hell away from this thing!  You'll find no entertainment from it. And that's where it fails, it fails at what the main purpose of this game was made for, ENTERTAINMENT!

All it will do, is poison and scar your mind for life. You'll never be the same again.
You'll feel cheated, lied to, manipulated, used, frustrated, raped and robbed.
That's what you'll be left with. Enjoy.