Where to begin with this train wreck of a game.  Twisted Metal 3 is like an abomination that should have never been made.  989 ruined the whole spirit and everything that made Twisted Metal 2 one of the best games ever made.  The only thing I would give this sequel over the previous game was that the cars graphically look a little better.  The game is so frustrating from the controls that it makes it no fun to play.  Everything got worse instead of better.

Story and Characters
They brought back the taxi from the first game, added a grandma and a Flower Power 60's car.  Yeah not a lot else needs to be said all 3 suck.  They got rid of some of the fun characters from the 2nd game like Shadow and Mr. Slam for those 3 and changed some of the names probably a copyright issue between the companies.  Not a big deal but still why not just keep the names the same.  The story is pretty much the same but uses 3D graphics instead of the animation theme.  I personally thought the animation from 2 was great and added a lot of fun to the game.  I loved beating TM2 with each character to see the multiple endings.  This game is so frustrating you will get none of that same enjoyment from this game.

Play Control
Is ridiculous in this game it is way over responsive to the point where it is hard to even drive the vehicles.  Just driving over power ups seems like a chore to pickup when they should be easy.  The wonderful freeze element in TM2 does not work near as well in this game.  The play control in TM2 was outstanding, every vehicle was easy to learn and play.  Not so in this monstrosity.

Stages & Backgrounds
The stages and backgrounds seem cramped and you don't get the feel of exploration you did in the previous game.  The cars all stay pretty close to you, so you don't do much searching for opponents on the other end of stages.  Gone are the fun elements of Antarctica falling to pieces or environmental dangers such as Moscow or the ruins of Latin America surrounded by lava.  Instead you get Egypt, The North Pole, Washington DC, London and Tokyo.  None of which is very exciting. I found the background boring and uninspiring.

Challenge
This game is cheap as hell, but not in the way you would think.  Instead of all the cars fighting each other, it seems like all the opponents just gang up on you alone so the odds are always 4 to 1 or 5 to 1 instead of even.  When you get a few opponents life bars way down they run off looking for your health powerups, that's right they wimp out stop engaging and run for health before they start attacking you again.  When I first saw this in the game I thought you have to be kidding me.  What programmer would add that in.  It really ruins the gaming experience and is frustrating.  When I died in TM2 I was eager to start the stage over and get revenge on the car that destroyed me but that does not really happen in this game because it takes so much longer just to destroy an enemy car because they are running after health the whole time.  The bosses are pretty much the same I thought the final boss was not unoriginal. The radar in this game is not nearly as good as with the previous game making it hard to track your prey and see where they are at on the grid.

Verdict
Avoid this game like the plague.  The cars and graphics may look better but you will have a better time beating your head against a wall that playing this game.  the endings and stories are not as good, the play control is awful.  The challenge is way to high because of cheap tactics. The radar is not really helpful.  All in All it is the worst game in the series.  I hated this game save your money or just buy the Twisted Metal 1 or 2.

Gameplay: 3/10
Play Control: 1/10 (over responsive to the point of frustration)
Story\Originality: 2/10
Challenge: 10/10
Fun Factor\Replay Value: 1/10