I hadn't played an FF game for a long time, so I picked up FFX, hoping that all the good pub this game got would be true.  Alas, it was not.  FFX was a wretched game, no doubt.  Disgusted after spending 40 hours, I went back into the series, having heard that the earlier games were better.  My best buy had FFVIII on sale for like $15, so I bought it, figuring it couldn't be worse than X.  I was wrong.  Where to begin?  I'll start with the music, which is really repetitive.  It's really not even that good.  Next, the storyline, which is SO bizzare.  So Edea is the enemy.  No, she's being possessed by some other person.  Who you've never heard mentioned.  Not once, until the 3rd disc.  WTF?  The draw/junction system is horrendous as well.  Why can't I use the MP system?  But my biggest complaint with this game is the GFs.  At least by FFX they were smart enough to have the option to eliminate the intro scene.  NO such option here.  And I looked HARD.  Each one requires a year and a day to summon, so you just sit and watch Leviathan materialize, create a slide, and drop water down it.  How impressive.  If each character is summoning a GF, you could get up, drive 3 hours away to pick up some shoes on the side of the road, come back home, make dinner, eat, go to the bathroom, and sit back down and Pandemona would still be firing its attack.  And you can't avoid this, because your characters are so weak physically, that you must use them at least twice a battle.  In the event you find enough items to improve your weapon, this amount decreases, but you still use nothing but GFs during boss fights.  You don't even use real magic!  Why?  because using magic takes away defense points from your junction system!  You may use heal and status magics, but blacks are out of the question.  Besides, they're weaker than the GFs!  Even when triple cast, a triple cast blizzaga is weaker than Shiva!  Who thought of this?  I'm about 1/3 way through the 3rd disc, and I really don't even want to finish it.  When I found out the same people who designed this game designed X, it came to me as no surprise.  So many bad things about this game were evident in X, it was eerie.  Shame on square for allowing the makers of this game to make X.