This game is very fun to play, but be warned off by this review from me!  It has the highly severe computer worm in its installation cds that Symantec's Norton web site refers to as: "IRC W32 Tibick Activity".  Also the XP update for it also has a computer worm in it!
To check out the details off what it does to infected computer systems go to: [...]
That page at Norton doesn't specifically refer to "Final Fantasy VII", but for those that want to know for sure that what I'm stating is correct you can use the shorter web site address at Norton by using the web address of: [...]
In the web page that pops up into view; enter: "Final Fantasy VII"  into the search box on that page and hit the enter key on your keyboard.  A page with three options will comeup.  The top one is about the worm in the FF VII installation cds.  The next one is about the XP 1.5 version upgrade, and that has an additional worm in it.  The final option refers to a worm that infects FF XI & FF XII.  That worm is even more dangerous than even the one on the FF VII installation cds.  Thast one will automatically go to the computer's  email section and send ZIP versions of itself to every contact listed there.  Also all three worms will every time the computer is turned on check for a specific website to get upgraded versions of itself.
My advise though Norton doesn't state it; is to destroy every copy of the PC version of "Final Fantasy VII" that you have to prevent infecting the computers in the world.
In the file about "IRC W32 Tibick Activity" the Norton people mention how to completely remove the computer worm from infected computer systems.  That process can take a while though as that worm infects several other programs on the computer as well.  Norton lists all the programs that it infects as well.
I myself have two copies of FF VII and even a copy of the cds I made as well.  I'm going to destroy those cds as well to follow my own advise.  Those people sure did a very mean stunt to the makers of Final Fantasy VII in ruining possibly the best rpg game they ever made!!!  Personally I think those people at the least should be sent to a federal prision<sp> for the rest of their lives!!! grrr!!!