Lara Croft games have NEVER been any good.  I remember when the very first one came out 10 years ago.  Teens were practically DROOLING on their controller every time they saw Lara's pretty face.  Tomb Raider must have been advertised like it was the most groundbreaking video game to ever hit the freakin' market.  The thing is, the games are boring and Lara Croft isn't very pretty.

If polygon-breasted girls are your thing, go for it.  But they aren't MY thing, and I know I'm not the only one to think so.  Lara Croft isn't good-looking to the millions of internet gamers who understand that a blocky-looking computer babe isn't going to automatically make a game any fun to play.  I'll give Lara Croft SOME credit.  She was one of the originators of the "running around half-naked female shooter/adventure" type of video games.  In fact, you might even say she was a MAJOR influence because soon after her very first adventure, more and more game companies were making the main characters in their games half-naked chicks.  Lara brought something new to the world of video games and I will give her credit for that.

Sometimes influence doesn't matter when a game is really bad.  This is one of those cases.  The Tomb Raider series on the original Playstation is a joke.  I absolutely *groan* when I think about playing a Tomb Raider game because I remember how ugly and dark the environments are, the glitchy problems that dominate all three Tomb Raider games, the annoying and difficult jumping style of Lara Croft (which makes it nearly impossible to progress to the end of the game.  Good luck- she NEVER jumps where you want her to) and of course, mentioned above, Lara's supposed beautiful face (she's NOT pretty, remember?)

It also doesn't help that the puzzles you have to solve are ALWAYS really awful (and appear frequently) and, because of the jumping problem, very frustrating to complete.  Trying to aim your gun at an emeny isn't exactly a walk in the park, either.  The whole series has been an overrated disaster up to this point.

By the time Tomb Raider 3 was released people were REALLY getting fed up with the series.  Now, these same people will tell you this was because they kept releasing more and more Tomb Raider games, but I actually think people got sick of Tomb Raider because games like Resident Evil and Silent Hill came along with a similar style and improved on it *drastically*, making Tomb Raider look awfully dated by comparison.

At least the third Tomb Raider game has SOME decent-looking background levels.  I guess the company who created Lara Croft finally understood that Lara's pretty face ALONE isn't going to get the job done anymore.  I mean, at least in some places the backgrounds LOOK good .  Not exactly the prettiest environments available on the Playstation of course, and most of the time all you see is darkness or candlelight.  But what's THERE is okay to look at, at least.

Tomb Raider 3 features a challenge that is mostly only challenging because of the above-mentioned jumping problem.  She simply doesn't jump the way you want her to.  You'd THINK the game company would've dealt with this problem with all the new moves for Lara they added to the game, but no, none of these new moves make the game any easier.  The artifact-finding storyline had potential but unfortunately the frustrating challenge ruined it.

BOY am I glad I never bought any of these games (all these years I've been watching OTHER people play them).  Reading reviews for the more recent Tomb Raider games on the Playstation 2, I see NO improvements have been made.  Let the series END already.