Too much delay and sensitivity out of this microphone for rb4 ps4.  Makes it unplayable.I have the wii version and is HORRIBLE. JUST LIKE YOU HIT AN OPPONENT WITH A SHELL, PASS, AND WITH NO ITEM, THE CPU BOOSTS WAY AHAED. HORRIBLESeriously, it's one of the worst games ever! Terrible graphics, especially compared to the PS Triple's, no voice acting, boring puzzles, and above all, it stars a little fruity fairy boy who wears green panties and never hits on any of the babes in this game. Plus why is the main villian black? That's racist!

For a good Zelda game, I recommend Link: The Faces of Evil, The Wand of Gamelon, or Zelda's Adventure.mario kart is not fun there is no secret characthers or secret places[i think]. I tried the game for an hour and was completly bored now i don't like racing games. The producers should have tried a little harder on this game i was completly unsatified.Absolutely Horrible...It wasn't even Logitech.  It was Konami and it froze my xbox one repeatedly when I unplugged it.  These also sound horrible with Rock Band 4 compared to the mic the game comes with.I found Half-Life to be somewhat interesting, although it started to run thin by the ending levels. Not many of the levels were amazing, either. Just long hallways, small rooms, and an occasional elevator shaft that you  climb up. I like 3D games that let you be outside, looking over vast plains  of enemies and obstacles. Half-Life just didn't cut it in this  arena.
Another thing that I found most disturbing was the extreme  gore/violence that is present throughout the game. When your science  project goes wrong, you walk out to find a scientist lying on the ground  with about 10 gallons of blood spread all over the walls and floor! Were  the programmers just trying to be sick here or what? When you reach the  levels in which you begin to fight the army grunts (who are the best  enemies), it gets even more grotesque. If you let off an entire clip of  bullets at one guy, expect to see a wall covered with blood. Sure, you can  turn it off, but it does very little good. The blood is still very  disturbing. This is one aspect of the game that is extremely unacceptable.  I am not a parent saying this, either, I'm a teenager.
Aside from the  violence and lack of interesting levels, the game is pretty much void of  any lasting qualities. If you want a weekend of pure hell (both keeping you  stuck to your computer and grossing you out entirely) then buy this game.  Otherwise, don't bother.I have played this game before and it is very fun! That is why I came to Amazon to order myself another copy of the game so that I could go back in time and enjoy a classic game. However, I bought it from the seller "Warehouse Deals, Inc" and I did NOT get my game and there is no place for me to get in contact with them. Watch Out!I've bought and played ALL of the ANNO games since 1602, and spent more hours than I can even count building massive empires with extremely complex trade routes. I was thrilled to see another installment released, but I absolutely will NOT pay for something that limits my hardware changes and installs.

Wake up UBI, look at all of your other software title reviews, both here on Amazon and on gaming sites. People are not as stupid as you think, and will simply find a different game to fill their time with and throw their money at if their freedoms are inhibited by your software.

By adding DRM you've actually promoted the use of piracy instead of reduced it, because those that really do want to play it will find a way.I just wanna review out something no ones said yet.

If you still ever play this game, it is a great game, it's 5 stars, provided your into this sort of thing.

But recently when i played the playstation version, i noticed they jibbed out and didn't include certain things that the PC version and better version had.

First off - There is no train. The PC version has a fully working train that you can hijack and even put into reverse.. sure, it may be useless to crash into another train, but it was entertaining. The PS version doesnt have a train.. but yet, it has the tracks for it, so go figure that one out.

Next, lack of vehicles. The PC version doesnt have spots where cars just disapeer and it feels like your walking around a ghost town.

And something no one can say wouldnt be better... you can edit the PC version, not only can you put whatever car you want into the game by downloading a simple quick device them importing a car you can download or make yourself, but you can also change everything in the game with simmilar tools. You can not just add cars, you can add missions, put more cars into things, edit the exsisting map, or hell, make your own city from scratch.

When I play this game, i like to ride around in Knight Rider, or maybe the General Lee, try and eulude cops driving lambourghinis... gouranga!

Convinced the PC versions better? Makes you feel like the PSX you played was lacking, huh?I cannot get this thing to work with my Wii Rockband 3.
It might be related to the USB hub that I'm using, but it simply refuses to be detected by the game.

Cosmetically, it's a microphone. Bit on the ugly side.
I would be wary of compatibility issues with this one.To this very day I still cannot understand why everyone loves Tomb Raider so much. Aside from the odd improvement here and there, the games haven't changed vastly (I think Doom to Quake is vastly) at all. I find controlling Lara very clumsey, the 3rd person view not help. Plus, Lara does all the aiming so the satisfaction of blasting something's head off from a distance is non-existent. I found myself fart around half the time. Where's the fun in climbing up a rock face? I'm all for puzzles but I find these games boring and labourious. Oh, and Lara Croft is not fit because she's not real and if she was she'd fall forwards due to her massive mammaries. So stop ogling at your screen, you sad people!I was so happy when I got it but it turns out it was BROKEN! Do not buy instead of this by star fox 64 I'm dead seriousI was very disappointed in this item.  We thought we would get a better picture than the standard WII video cables, but definatley took a leap in the wrong direction.  I would not recommend.Even when it first came out I tried out this game but could not get into it and I hate the n64 old style 3d graphics where the camera angle ends up getting you killed every five seconds, espessially in pits.  Of all the Mario games to date including the amazing Wii titles except for Super Mario Wii this has to be the worst Mario game for me since Mario Nes.  The graphics are terrible, the music is annoying and it's just boaring.I'll admit right now that I hate all of the Simcities that came out, with the exception of the Super Nintendo version of the first Simcity.  I'm more of an action person, not a sit-back-and-watch-my-city-grow person.  Sure,  Simcity 3000 is good for a while with it's catchy graphics and innovative  approach to buidling a city, but a few hours later, you'll either want to  fall asleep or put your fist through the monitor, depending upon whether  the income for your city is positive or negative for each game year.  I  turned out to be one of the latter people.  No matter how hard I tried, I  could never get the income to come out positive.  So, I did what any  distraught and stuck person would do...go online for cheat codes!  An hour  later, I was bored.  If you're a thinker, by all means try Simcity 3000  out.  But, if you're a person that thinks actions speak louder than words,  try Dungeon Keeper 2, a game like Simcity 3000, but not as complex (and  more active!).I wanted to get another doom game because I have a friend who won't give it back so I ordered another 1 and it does not playThe game is okay, well... it is bad. Too arcade for my taste, I owned it when I was 8 years old and it was not even fun for me at that age. The wrestlers move to quickly, the moves are stupid and the game itself is dull after 5 matches.Without a doubt one of the worst games I've ever played. There is no creativity or excitement, nothing that makes you want to play more. You fight the same, boring enemies over and over in large numbers. All they do is bum rush you or occasionally throw a snowball. The AI in this game is a complete joke. Music is horribly forgettable, overall sound is okay. Graphics are bland and level designs look like they all were developed and programmed in a weekend. Each main character has a bit of in-game dialogue, and it quickly becomes repetitive and stale. AND DO NOT GET ME STARTED ON HOW ANNOYING THE TURKEY SOUNDS ARE.

Once you peel away the South Park appeal, there is very little left to stand on its own. I endured playing this for maybe 20 minutes before shutting it off out of extreme boredom. I can see why nobody ever talks about this game. Let's leave it that way.I was interested in this product for the n64 part.  Retrolink makes SNES and NES controllers for PC but no N64.
Trying to get a PS2 controller to work on a PC is stupid because every major PC gamepad company has a PS2 copy of their controller that goes through native USB.

I tried all of the following on Windows XP SP3 32 bit and GNU/Linux Kernel 2.6+, same results.

PS1 Controller: (Both official Sony controllers)
Dualshock (Analog sticks): Worked, but the back L and R buttons (L2 and R2) would not trigger.  Both analog sticks tracked perfectly.
Original (No Analog sticks): Worked perfect.  Back L and R buttons work.

PS2 MadCatz Controller:
Didn't work at all.  It was however a madcatz and not an official sony controller.
Had no authentic ps2 controllers to test.

N64:
I had two controllers to test with it.
Transparent purple:  Every button worked, but the analog stick would not go %100.  Jamming it to the right shows only a slight movement even though I moved it %100.  Windows configuration was impossible since the C buttons kept firing like someone was pressing them all madly.
Gray:  All buttons worked but the analog stick and all of the C buttons went haywire and fired constantly.

Maybe I got a bad one, but I really think this thing sucks.

If you're looking for a usb adapter for N64 controllers, try&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/May-Flash-N64-Controller-Adapter-for-PC-USB/dp/B002B9FIUU/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">May Flash N64 Controller Adapter for PC USB</a>.
If you're looking for a usb version of a PS2/PS1 controller, go for the&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Logitech-Dual-Action-Game-Pad-USB/dp/B0000ALFCI/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Logitech Dual Action Game Pad USB</a>.I can't get full range on the analog stick.  I can't find any other adapter except this one on the internet... as though this is the end-all be-all answer we were looking for.Making South Park into a first person shooter isn't a horrible idea, it's just horribly executed.  I imagine Acclaim bid on the South Park contract so quickly, they didn't bother to come up with any good gaming ideas it could go with.  I would also be hard pressed to do so.  ...I got the ship simulator but I tried to install it an it was confusing. 1 day later I install it and this time it did work, when it was time to play it, guess what it didn't went through! It sucks! O.OFirst of all, the graphics suck. The characters suck. Everything sucks in this one. My brother paid ten dollars for this game. I wouldn't of paid a penny. Rent it if you dare. Terrible game.I don't get why so many people rate this a high game. There's nothing special about it at all. I got this game awhile back and thought it was pretty lame so the game went into retirement, until I decided to pull it out for the first time in many many years and play it and my thoughts remain the same.

For WCW's first video game made during the Monday Night Wars, this was pretty terrible. For starters, this is more of an arcade type of video game then a game you'd expect. The game came out in 1997, yet looks and feels like it was made in 1990, transferred to Playstation discs and called a video game.

WCW vs The World was developed and published by Japanese companies, Asmik Ace Entertainment and The Man Breeze, which would probably explain why there are only 13 WCW wrestlers in the game, while the rest of the roster is fictional Japanese wrestlers. That's right folks. Only 13 WCW wrestlers, while the rest are made-up Japanese wrestlers that have never even remotely been heard of. It's kind of a waste of a game if you're not going to include all of the WCW roster and have a bunch of created wrestlers take up space.

The only arenas you can play in are house show like arenas. There's a WCW house show like arena and the rest are Japanese arenas. To add on to the Japanese theme in this game, there's cheesy music that loops throughout the matches that sounds like it would've been acceptable in a 1980s Japanese action movie. There are 7 different modes you can play in this game that are: League Challenge, Best of Seven, Exhibition Match, Elimination Match, Tournament, League Match, and Double Title Match.

It goes without saying that the move-sets in this game are also very limited. Each wrestler only has about 6 to 7 different moves for you to use until you begin getting bored. Ultimately, once you've played one match, you've played them all. Overall, this game is just horrible. It gets boring within the first 10 minutes before you want to cut it off. A similar WCW game, made and published by the same company would come out later that year; WCW vs NWO: World Tour for the Nintendo 64. It was slightly better than vs The World, but that's not saying much.

Basically if you want to play a better WCW game than vs The World for Playstation, buy Thunder, Nitro, Mayhem, or Backstage Assault. Nitro and Backstage Assault weren't all that good but any following WCW game is 1000x more fun to play than this abomination that is WCW vs The WorldI get it, it was one of the first games from PS1 but sincerely, this game is horrible. Looking back on it, the gameplay is stale, the graphics look okay, the action and moves are lame. Miracle is that this game didn't get bashed as it could have been.What you see in photo is dust, totally disappointed when opened the case and see the disk unclean in that wayCompare this to super mario, crash bandicoot and dark souls, this game looks too easy and boring.
The bosses are a joke. A laughing stock next to crash, the levels prove to be a bigger challenge with enemies and hidden gems.
The graphics and music are terrible too.
Id say forget the first three and star with: enter the dragonfly and legend seriesI'm sure I would love the game, if I could play it, I have loved all the Hitman games thus far.  The one star is due to steam.  Steam is absolutely beyond annoying and they do NOT help you if you ask them.  I found out after I purchased it that windows xp does not support direct X-10.  I do have a high end video card but it doesn't make a difference.  I recommend that no one purchase any games or other items that require steam.  Perhaps then they will fix all the problems or go out of business (my favorite option).  I am very good with computers (built mine) so that is not the problem.  As always it's a steam issue.If you like orange bandicoots and video games, then get Crash Bandicoot, the stuff of dreams and legends. "I am N.Gin you FOOL! Face my destructive robots!" That is my fave quote. If you hop on the 'shrooms right before the end o' the 2nd snow bear level and go to the central one, you shall find none other but a secret tele-port. You will go to an unknown warp room that makes no sense. Congrats.Ok, here are the reasons this game is BAD!.
  1. The graphics aren't very good and plus most of the levels look alike.
  2. It's frustrating, and there are millions of ways to die in one level.
  3. You'll wish you never had this game.
  4. Most of it doesn't make any sense and it's un-imaginative.
  There.  Are those good enough reasons NOT to get this game? Don't get it.Wasn't the very first Crash Bandicoot game supposed to become one of the all-time greatest Playstation games?  That's what Sony thought would happen back in the day.  After all, they promoted the game to death.  Well look at that... didn't happen!  And with good reason.  The game is horrible.  I can't believe ANYONE would prefer this junk over Sonic the Hedgehog or, especially, the Mario Bros. series.

You have to give Sony a LOT of credit for all the attention they put into Crash Bandicoot in an attempt to put the game on the same extraordinary level as Mario and Sonic, but gamers never really caught on to Crash the same way.  When you think about it, the Playstation already HAD a huge selection of games to choose from around the time Crash was released, therefore Sony didn't even NEED a mascot.  People were buying Playstation games like crazy anyway!  Crash Bandicoot never even had to exist.

You'd think for a debut game (a BIG debut, considering all the advertisements on TV commercials) Sony would have made the game a *little* easier for younger or inexperienced gamers to play.  Instead, Sony started off the Crash series with impossible bonus levels (impossible to complete AND find- I didn't even KNOW the game had bonus levels until I looked it up in the instruction booklet!)

Even if you ignore the bonus levels, the challenge overall is pretty high anyway thanks to all the difficult stages (such as the one where you're crossing a bridge way up in the sky and continue falling through the wooden cracks- a NIGHTMARE of a level!)  All the lives you earned up to this point in the game will go away.  A mascot debut game shouldn't have the difficulty THIS high because the idea is for players of ALL ages to enjoy the game.  Children will not like the nonstop frustration.

I think the biggest reason Crash Bandicoot isn't remembered today the same way Mario and Sonic's debut games are is because Crash is basically just a blend of Mario and Sonic, but featured in a 3D world.  Think about it.  Crash collects berries throughout the game (Mario collects coins, Sonic collects rings).  Crash has a spin attack (Mario and Sonic already had spin attacks YEARS before Crash's existence).  Sony just didn't have enough creative ideas to come up with something entirely different, and that's why most gamers tend to ignore Crash Bandicoot.  When you already have the best (Mario and Sonic) you don't need imitations.

Crash Bandicoot may have improved later on (not enough of an improvement to earn its mascot reputation, however) but the series certainly did NOT start with a bang.  I will always remember the very first Crash Bandicoot game as being this uninteresting, frustrating experience.  Heck, just the fact that only 62 reviewers have submitted reviews for the game right here on amazon goes to show Crash Bandicoot's first adventure was meant to be gone and forgotten.  Add to the fact that right now in the year 2006 NO ONE is talking about ANY Crash Bandicoot game anymore.  This means you can ignore Crash Bandicoot entirely, and not really miss out on anything.Augh! I found the first few levels of Crash 1 harder than the 3rd world levels Crash 2 and 3. It also uses a system of having to pass one level to get to the next. This becomes frustrating because I found myself having to repeat the same level over and over again because I either died or... hell, I don't know. I just had to repeat the level because it wouldn't let me continue.
Also, there is no giant screen where you can save. You have to find the bonus platform, and make it all the way through the bonus part to save. Happen to fall through the cracks on the bonus? Sorry! You're just going to have to hope you don't die or else you'll have to repeat EVERYTHING. OVER. AGAIN.
A little kid is going to get frustrated and give up on this game if you get it for him. Be nice to your children. Buy them Crash 2. Or 3. Or games from the Spyro series, that would work too.
If you really really want to play all the games in the Crash series just rent it.. even though it's dirt cheap to buy.. (haha) Put the money towards something BETTER.Update June 2013:
Deeply disappointed at the lack of a non-linear open-world environment. But its the restrictive QTE gameplay and final-kill cut-scenes that kill the game for me. I loath enforced QTE. When a mission goes awry and you're trying to escape a hail of bullets, if you happen to brush past an assailant you can't escape QTE mode. Meanwhile you're being shot at from all sides. It just lacks the sense of freedom that Blood Money had, and it takes you out of the whole gaming experience placing you instead into a second-rate interactive movie.

As a loyal fan of the Hitman franchise, I waited years for this. I would have loved if they had added driving into the game in order to rival Saints Row or the GTA series etc. What they did add took away from the game. For instance they should have kept the semi-open-worlds of Blood Money and build-on those beautiful sets, maps and locations.

I would have loved if Hitman had been as open as Skyrim. Overall Dishonored's gameplay is a far superior hitman style gaming experience. But I wish they had had Bioshock Infinite's breathtaking visuals in that particular game.

==================================================================

Wow after all these years waiting-- this is it.....?!!!

I am still a huge fan of Blood Money. The fact that you can now play it again online for free is a huge plus! To play, all you have to do is watch a 30-second ad on mute and you get sufficient time to play a level. Who can complain about that? But this, what took them so long to produce a bad cousin of Metal Gear Solid?!

Intuition....? STOP! STOP! STOP Please let me use my own intuition! And what is it with the game constantly talking to you like you're an idiot? All this serves to do is kill any the sense of atmosphere, tension and suspense!

You want to know how bad this game is....? They use cut scenes for the final kill, thus killing any sense of pay off! And you can't even skip through the intro level! Hello? This was a cult game... So lots of people know how to play it and don't need this hand holding to be mandatory!

The graphics too are little improvement over Blood Money, and are definitely a let down compared to the current generation of games. There is less of a non-linear feel about this version also. Now you're not quite tied to a string as you walk through levels, but its sub par compared with the freedom of its predecessor IMHO.

Such a shame, such a shame. But good for me as I embark on a career in Video Game Design. It gives me confidence that I might have something better to bring to the table.don't really need cards larger than 8MB and the 8MB by sony is most compatible with all games but these work tooEverytimes we loaded the game it would play for maybe 5 mins and then would keep freezing and not play and my gaming system is not messed up I cant return the game I threw away the bag I wish companies would test their damn games before selling them disapointed.Unless you still have a PS 1 and like it, the game sucks. Bought it for my Son(5) and playing it on a PS2.
It's very anoying to have only the option to use U/D/L/R to moove in the game. No joistick(L3) use at all.
It may be a very nice Game but the controller use make it suck. Comon, we are in 2011. It may be my bad do not know more about PS1 use, still, if I had read a review about that I wouldnt had bought the game. My Son played TY2 all the way trought with some help of me. We are not big gamers but like jump n' run games.
So, please be aware of the controller use limit. The game will en up in the corner. Very sad, shipping and the item it self where very good. Hope the TY1 is better(is in the Mail). LOL, yes, lots of old games but my son is 5, so let him scratch or kill the game on accitent, same as the PS2, it's not a big Deal. But for now it helps him to learn to handle games and take care of stuff. And the games are cheap, since some PPL always think they have to have the Newest. Thanks to those, like this we have fun for less.
Sincerely,
-M.Saved one game and now it will no longer work. stick to brand name memory cardsThis game is horrible. First, I bought this video "game" because I thought it was fun. Well in wasn't. 1st, the graphics are poor. 2nd the computer's difficulty level is so hard. If you play with one, two, or three people, you always lose. The computer is WAY more expirenced than a human will ever be, and it just degrades from the fun factor. So ignore the reviews that say it is so great. They are overexxagerating. My 8-year-old brother got bored with it in 3 hours.Who created this game and why? I get the concept and it's a really good one. Then why did I give it one star? This game is created for people who find Call of Duty and Halo so easy they get bored and refuse to play them. The mini-games must be beaten absolutely flawlessly or you don't get any points whatsoever. Sometimes you even lose points for not absolutely mastering the mini-game. If you're 99% perfect, sorry no points. The biggest flaw in this game is that it has to be four players. If you don't have four players then the computer will take over the rest. Be warned, the computer always wins every single mini game. There's a choice for computer skill...easy, normal, or hard...huh? What is hard skill? Does that mean the game is hard for the computer player or the computer player is hard for you to beat? No explanation whatsoever. But, it does not matter, Ive tried all three settings multiple times and it makes no difference in the computer's amazing flawless skill at mastering the game. The point of the game is to get 20 coins, by absolutely mastering the mini-games as flawlessly as inhumanly possible, then randomly landing on the space where Toad is selling stars for 20 coins. Watch out, there's also a space where, if they have 50 coins, other players can steal your star. They should call this game Star Stealers. The only real trick to the game is to be the one who lands on the star stealing spot the most times...and thus steal everyone else's stars. There's no friendly competition here...it's all about bing underhanded. If you don't have 50 coins to steal a star you can, for zero coins, steal coins from other players. this game always leads to everyone ganging up on the player who is doing the best. There's no skill involved to winning the game over all because it's all about who's lucky enough to land on the star stealing spot the most times. One turn your in first place and the next your in fourth, but when you're in fourth you're stuck. Whoever happens to have the most stars when the game ends wins the game no matter how poorly you played the game. Oh, and don't forget they the shortest version of the game takes 45 minutes minimum. The longest version takes 3+ hours. Ridiculous and frustrating to no end. Its a game that takes a minimal of an hour to lose. No thank you! You should try Chef's Luv Shack, it's based on the same concept but you can actually win the mini-games once in a while.This game doesn't work,I bought it used...it was packaged very well though...We have a very upset son here....I am letting you know so that you can test the games before you send them to other people......in more ways than one.  Besides the overall poor quality of the game, there was that camera!  Honestly, whoever designed that thing needs to be smacked with a wet fish.
I played levels 1 through 10, and then had to stop just before the end of the game because I was nauseated and had an eyestrain headache.  I am not exaggerating.
The camera has a tendency to swirl around when you need it to stay still, and to sit still when you need it to move.  The grainy, pixelated graphics and complete lack of distinguishing features in the levels make it not only very easy to get lost, but also very hard on the eyes.  When you need to jump across platforms or walk AROUND something, that's when things really get bad.  Flik leaves almost no shadow on the ground when he jumps, so your jumps will usually be blind leaps of faith.  The other problem is his feet.  He dangles his feet so low when he jumps, that 9 times out of 10 you will miss a platform because his feet won't plant on it.  And, when he does land, he won't stop running, which will send him promptly stepping right off the other end of the thing and forcing you to do the jump all over again.
The other problem is the camera angles when walking around something.  When you walk around to the other side of a large object, for some idiotic reason, the camera does not follow you.  As a result, you are sitting there with your entire screen filled in by this object while you can't see Flik on the other side.  Now, as if that situation is not bad enough, picture yourself having to do a platform jump while your view of Flik is completely blocked by a large rock on the screen, or being hit by an enemy that you can't see because the camera won't move.  Instead of turning with you, you must stop for about 5 seconds after turning to allow the camera to "catch up."  At the same time, the camera has a tendency to turn even while you're just running straight ahead in a single direction, which results in you being completely reversed.  It's completely disorienting, and with the bland, nearly identical levels, you can find yourself lost and irritated very frequently.
It's all fun and games, until you've developed a tension headache trying to look at the bad graphics and camera angles, and flung your controller across the room because you just don't feel like attempting that same jump for the 89th time.  Please, stay away from this one.  Don't become an accomplice to anymore game companies trying to cash in on a movie franchise.The product arrived in its original case with game booklet. The case was cracked and the CD had minor scratches on it. The gameplay controls are very confusing and difficult. It takes some getting used to. The image was very dark, not sure if it was my TV but no other games have ever had this problem. The in-game options did not have and actual brightness setting to help me with this. The sound during gameplay will randomly crackle and or stop all together. Overall i was not happy with the game itself. I had no problems with the provider or the arrival of the product.This game is so stupid like one of the revier's said all you do is find stuff and haveto find the exit door. And the last three levels are impossible to beat because they all look the same and you keep finding the same door you went through before. This game is like doom, you know the one where you just see the weapon. Dont' get me wrong the graphics were cool but it just sucked and the only way to beat it is if you cheat.I love puzzles... I mean, I LOVE PUZZLES.

But I don't love this.

Not only is this game boring, the graphics aren't too great either (even for PS one... my other games look better than this).

I think I'm better off playing puzzle games online for free...Okay I'm not totally lowbrow, I can get puzzles (I got near the end of this game called Lighthouse). I couldn't get this at all when I played it, not even a bit. You roam around this island getting fragmented information, and at least on the computer the puzzle hit-detection seemed weak, so trying to access the puzzles themselves even with a guide was a frustrating endeavor. The puzzles themselves were bad enough, but the fact that solving some of them didn't seem to change anything discernible (at least in the early stages of the game) meant I ultimately gave up in frustration.  Not to mention it wasn't even fun.

Instead of this, I'd recommend Okami or any other hybrid puzzle-rpg.  If you can't figure out the puzzle with the tools possessed, you can at least take out your frustrations on a hapless creature in battle.I have used many third party expansion packs and they all have failed. They have caused my console to crash and have experienced other issues. I now am using the Nintendo brand expansion pack and have never had problems since.I have used a lot of third party expansion packs for the Nintendo 64 and they all have been problematic causing crashes and other issues. The only one that works without a problem is the Nintendo brand Expansion Pak.I was really mad that on the buying site it said it was made buy Sony and found out later it was made in China! Sony makes their own stuff in Japan! This is false advertizing!Products offered by many marketplace sellers are not original Nintendo Brand. Often they are unlicensed third party knock-off expansion packs. Ive personally had these damage a system and ruin games. Look for sellers offering the real thing by Nintendo. Ive warned you. You can save a few bucks and take your chances. Deviation from the actual product isn't even allowed on Amazon. Their very listings are a violation to begin with. Their feedback speaks for itself.I HATE THIS GAME IT SUCKED HARD TO CONTROL! THE THIRD GAME IS IMPOSSIBLE AND STUPID THE SECCOND GAME IS HARD TO CONTROL AND OVERALL ITS JUST AWFULL!A 60FPS original Xbox game locked to 30FPS, with missing 480P support. As opposed to every other version, the US and JP PS2 port has support for switching the voice track between ENG or JPN. Choosing JPN helps massively with the cringeworthy ENG voices, but this hardly makes it a better game. It begins easy, then ends up slippery and borderline unfair in no time. You're essentially playing the same line of stages in the same order, with different missions per character. Also, the camera system has been completely screwed over by the porters. Honestly, this and Unleashed are great examples of 3D games in the series that are worse than '06. At least the framerate is stable...This game is horrible first of all the play is slow. This game gets confusing after a while the levals are just too chanelging! The graphics are weak and a poor excuse for a star wars game. The voice overs are soo weak! It takes way too long to load and get thourgh a leval. This doens't even follow the movie real well it goes out of the way and follows the smallest details. This is a must not buy and a huge letdown. Star Wars derserves a better game for thier first movie a almost 20 years and especially with all the new technology around. Don't buy this game!It turned out to be a 64MB card. While I would usually return it, I don't have another card to transfer all of my files to. 64MB is still a ton of space though for PS2 saves.I've been a Duke Nukem fan for a long time. I loved Time to Kill and enjoyed Land of the Babes. Total Meltdown is the most frustrating  FPS I have ever played. The speed is so fast it is hard to move. Looking up and down is a chore. You use L1 and L2 to look up and down. Jumping puzzles are annoying and swimming is almost impossible. Crouching is hard and the graphics are terrible. Sound is bad as well. The only funny part about this Duke Nukem game is the rulebook(it is funny). The only semi-detailed part of this game is Dukes weapons and hand animations. Even the cutscenes are bad. Please try to avoid this game and save some cash.I bought this and the key didn't work.  It was a gift, and the recipient wasn't able to solve the problem.  It might have been a good game, but I never found out because the key failed.Honestly, there's nothing good about this game.  The graphics are NOT at all what the playstation console has the ability for.  The graphics are more like Sega Genesis or Super Nintendo or even the atari rather than the Playstation.  If you like games with good graphics, do not get this game.
  The gameplay isn't that great, also.  The N64 version is much better, because the gameplay is more up to date and realistic, and plus the graphics are what the graphics SHOULD be like on the new and modern consoles.
  I swear, play a demo or atleast rent the game, (I rented it and it was the worst money I ever spent) and check out the graphics.  Plus, in order to know the story of this game, you have to read the direction book.  I can't remember it word by word, but it went something like this: "Duke was blasted out his ship and was about to be greeted by earth, when he realizes that a swarm of aliens has crowded the city of L.A." Okay, so the story sounds good...but why wasn't there a sequence within the game SHOWING us the story?  And plus, all the bad guys that you shoot look like cardboard.
  I think that whatever company or designers created this game obviously didn't have much money at the time, so they decided to make a mediocre game.  This was bad.  Believe me.
  If you want a game with good gameplay, excellent graphics, wonderful and atmospheric feelings to it, get some game on the playstation like a final fantasy.
  If you want a game with awful graphics, bad gameplay, no storyline sequences, and a Sega Genesis feel, then get this game.
  This game is not worth any money at all.Yes, people, this game sucks big time. This game came with the original Nintendo system back in late 1980s. I had a hard time trying to beat this game because the control was down right horrible. Most of the time you'll jump off edges by accident. And who ... would pay ... to relive the nightmare of this game? Apparent, 82 people who reviewed this game and my friend did.This product is not actually distributed by Sony. As well, Playstation 2 consoles, to my knowledge, do not have any existing memory cards above the 8MB in size. There's some nasty hack for it that simply doesn't work and this card will never work like they say it does. It's essentially a regular memory card without the 8MB memory limitation, therefore making the PS2 overwrite previous data because the memory card is full, but the PS2 doesn't understand that it's full, thus causing corruptions.

My source of this information? The Internet and the two 16MB memory cards I bought years ago, not off Amazon, though.

Seriously, don't be fooled by this.1st shipment received a book instead of the game.
2nd shipment got a FAKE one. Game arrived with a wrong key inside on sealed box. I got in contact with codemasters and send them pictures of the DVD and the content. They said nothing they can do its a fake DVD.

Returned it good bye.!I bought this I think there is something going on with it I am giving it 1 star not very good when I play the pikachu yellow version game I keep on hearing static and fuzzy noises not a very good hand held device this is not a very good hand held device don't waste your money if I were you I would keep my money I made a mistake of buying this I would not recommened this system to anyoneThe gameboy color was good but i really like the 1989 gameboy the grey one that takes 4 batteriesDefective product---... Microsoft made these sticks back in the olden days when computers had game ports. They stopped making these and then brought them back into production. But by that time the computers no longer came with game ports so they supplied this stick with a UBS adapter (that is unique to this product- no standard UBS adapter will work). The seller did not include this adapter in the box and claimed that I was lying when I flied a complaint with Amazon..... In the end he sent me a UBS adapter that was made to fix some of these problems with these older devices but that did not work. So I returned the product.. He  told me to send it back to him ( when a product Is defective the merchant is required to pay return shipping but he did not want to do that) and he would pay for the shipping when he got it back. He did not do that and then told Amazon that the adaptor was in the box.... well yes, the third party adapter was in the box, the one that he sent me in an attempt to solve the problem.I paid extra because i thought it was by Nintendo as advertised. It's generic. What a bunch of bull.THIS IS A SCAM! DO NOT BUY!!!!!!! they take a the case (as seen in picture) and put a 64 mb save card in it expecting you not to find out! these are NOT 128 mb card! they are 64mb cards with a case that tells you its 128!!!!! DO NOT BUY THIS YOU WILL END UP WITH A TERRIBLY MADE 64 mb CARD!!!!!!!!!!!!!! THIS PRODUCT IS AS MUCH OF A SCAM AS CAN BE!!!!!!!!The worst game EVER created! I wouldn't take this game even if someone offered ME money to take it.What a POS this game was and still is today!! All you do is just fly through rings over and over and over and over and over again,until you wanna pull your f'ing hair out!! The controls are hard and complicated,there is no story,and the graphics look like sh..!! I hate this game with a burning passion and every single Ringman 64 cartridge that exists in the world,needs to be destroyed,so future generations of gamers are spared the agony of this giant lump of butt-waste!!This is one of the worst games of all time.  I remember playing this as a kid and just kept sucking at it.  When I was a kid, I didn't understand a game could be bad and simply thought I was doing something wrong and kept playing until I finally accepted this game is awful.  The control in this game is really bad, especially during the ring stages.  You'll just fly all over the place.  The first instinct for such terrible control is to move slowly, but you have a time limit, so you don't have time to move slowly.  When I got to a point where I could fight, it was like a maze and had no idea where to go.  The ONLY reason anyone should buy this game is for game collecting only, and even then, they should save this when they are scraping the bottom of the barrel.This game does not, in fact, star Superman. It stars his genetically engineered clone created by Lexcorp known as Stuporman. Stuporman staggers like a drunken person, relies on power-ups for super powers, pulls punches so enemies beat him, likes random time limits (including ones that lead to an instant game over), can pass through solid objects like they aren't even there, and can die from things that cannot hurt the real man of steel in a million years, like ordinary bullets and explosions. He was created for the sole purpose of ruining Superman's reputation by making him look pathetic and weak. All part of Lex Luthor's evil plan! If you love Superman, don't buy this game, or you'll be buying into a lie!Fly threw rings and pick up cars...this game is an insult and should be shoved up the developers anus.Superman 64, after playing the game and reading the remarks made about this game - I question the existence of Titus why it was made!
Alright, on with the Review:
Graphics: Eye-bleeding! Don't look at them!
Controls: Don't start with me - they are slower than Molasses to make Supe perform his punches! Even the Multiplayer controls are near-unfinished!
Sound and Music: Ugh, don't question me -uninspiring; The Superman theme is nonexistent! Sound is low-budget, voice/acting is from the series but I'm definitely not in love with either them or this game!
Plot: Lex Luthor has trapped Lois Lane, Jimmy Olsen and Prof. Hamilton in a virtual world with Kryptonite fog in it and Supe has to go in and rescue them while putting down the Super-Villains Luthor purposely put there.
Fun Factor: This is not fun! For one, neither I nor my brother can beat the first level.  Supe both flying and running moves slow - if you try to fly: You'll have only ten-percent control over it! Not to mention the objectives you do are only for monkeys, you've got a timer for most of your objectives, this game is repetitive above all else, you have a health meter, a meter for all of your special abilities minus flying and you're gonna have to really try to get over your anger and impatience to beat this game!
And so: This is one of the worst games I've played, it literally ruined the Superman experience, pick up Spider-Man for the PSX, N64 or Dreamcast and enjoy the greatness it has to offer!
-J. GartenThis game was soooo bad, I took it immediately back to the game store where I got it from. I got it since I am a Superhero fan, but trust me, even if you are a diehard fan of Superman, resist the urge to purchase this game or trade for it or even accept it for free!!!!! This is one of those noway games that should be thrown in the microwave and have the molecules in it to be melted for good.
 When i first turned the game on, the people in the first level looked like an oil painting. And it is nearly impossible to fly through those rings!!! Miss one ring and words show up that say,"Lex wins" and you hear a really bad reproduction of baldy's laugh.
I put two stars for this being a fun game because it is so much fun to laugh at!!! I wonder why DC let Titus make this horrific game!!!! 'sob'Nintendo power voted it the worst game ever

Gamestop and spot hate it

I was unfortunate enough to stumble upon this game at my local video store. I thought "superman, I'll have to try that". I have never seen a game more deserving of the following: THIS IS THE WORST GAME EVER! IT DESERVES TO BE BURNED!!! IT IS A DISGRACE TO INTELLIGENT BEINGS EVERYWHERE! MAKIND SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF ITS POOR ABILITY TO CREATE GAMES! IT IS UTTERLY POINTLESS! IT MAKES SOUTH PARK LOOK LIKE SHAKESPEARE! IT MAKES ALIEN HOMINID SEEM EASY AND SOPHISTICATED!

Somewhere far, far away, Superman weeps.In "Kill Bill: Vol. 2", David Carradine described Superman as follows, "Not a very good comic; not particularly well-drawn."  Well, I suppose if Caine from Kung Fu is talking about this character, then the game must be cool too, right?  It's been almost 10 years since Titus released the most unorthodox game to ever grace our solar system.  It must be good, since we're still talking about all these years later.

Seriously, there's a lot to like about SUPERMAN 64.  You won't need any sort of defect warranty, because the second you flip the POWER switch, it works every time.  It's refreshing to buy an electronic device, knowing that it's electrical circuits will never fail you.

Equally cool is that Superman flies in this game...I like it when he flies.  Every time I pop in this cartridge, I'm even more eager to watch  the Christopher Reeve movies...all 4 of them.

The plot is revealed to the gamer with great restraint.  You see, there are bizarre, murky images that even David Lynch or Stanley Kubrick wouldn't be able to visualize.  For example, Lois Lane and Jimmy Olsen are confined to, um...a blurry contraption that kidnaps them; or does it imprison them?  I personally couldn't tell if it was really Jimmy and Lois, because it's very hard for the gamer to completely understand the cutscenes.  But isn't it neat to figure it out for yourself?  You see, because the graphics are so confusing and blurry, you get to keep playing again to unearth the game's secrets.  And don't worry about completing SUPERMAN 64 in a short period of time, either.  It's a tough game, and there are few games that equal its challenge.

What's most remarkable is how the game also addresses Superman's emotional state.  I'm sure Kal-El struggles to use his powers properly; it's not easy for a near-invincible alien to do the right thing 24/7.  Titus has tackled this concept very faithfully.  You see, when Superman flies, he won't always do what the N64 Controller tells him to do.  A free-spirited main character...brilliant!

Lastly, Superman's powers are present here.  He has his eye-lasers and wind/freeze breath.  That's always neat, huh?  But what's even more most fascinating is that The Man of Steel --- according to this game --- has the ability to manipulate the physical dimensions in which he exists.  He sometimes will be flying casually through the sky, and then have a sudden urge to fly through the buildings of Metropolis.  How cool is that?  On the other side of this spectrum, there are moments where Superman will get stuck in a wall or a drainage ditch......you know, I still haven't figured out how to beat those sections of the game.  I wonder, is there a higher power known only to Superman?  I ask, because Titus refuses to give us easy answers to this puzzling N64 entry.  The most gifted scientists, researchers, cryptologists, artists, and gamers will not be able to solve this enigma.

SUPERMAN 64 is one of the most unforgettable and original experiences in all of gaming!

*****THIS REVIEW WAS MEANT TO BE SARCASTIC AND SATIRICAL.  I AM NOT RESPONSIBLE IF YOU BUY THIS GAME!*****I could go on and on, but look, it is really very simple. It's hard to believe Titus could have screwed up this game so badly. They should be ashamed of themselves for releasing it.
So to all, always PRONTO pay attention to mister number one best sheriff student's idiotic post (i love you sophisticated people who drop the f bomb and think you are cool...White Trash that sums you up :) have a nice day
And don't forget, you hafta agree with me at all times, click on the YES button under my review, obey me, everything that has to do with good things of meI didn't even play this game and I don't own an N64, but because there are so many bad reviews I will just give this game another bad review so people won't buy it since it's supposed to be the WORST GAME EVER.What, you thought they were for the game? Get real... The arcade game was more fun... and all you did was walk/fly right and punch!! I can't go lower than one with the ratings, so I decided to use it for something worth while. The actual score I give Superman 64 on a scale of 1 to 5 is -12. See if you can find anyone who disagrees...

Ehh, changed my mind... I'll show the game's score... wouldn't want anyone to think I actually liked this thing...

(You know what, I get tired of people thinking I actually LIKE this thing, so I change the star rating to give it the score it deserves...)When I heard Nintendo was coming out with superman I got all excited, then they delayed the release date, which usually means the game is going under even more improvements.  When I bought Superman I sped all the way home, turned off my phone and sat in my chair.  To my suprise, this game is not worth the plastic it's made of.  I don't even have one good thing to say about it.  I was extremely disappointed.  Superman used to be cool.Once again we have an example of an Amazon vendor claiming one thing and delivering something else.
This CD-ROM did not even come in a protective plastic jacket. I suppose little Tommy's parents wouldn't give him the money to purchase one so he could completely fool the Amazon Dupe customer that he paid good money for a legal copy.It works only when wanting to, I thought it was initially cause the console was old, so i purchased a new one last week, and it acts the exact same way. sometimes it loads up, sometimes it don't, sometimes it loads up but says its unformated, others, it says it doesn't have enough space for a save, when it has more than 90% of the 128mb still available. and also sometimes it will say no memory card in slot available.  This is so worthless, I think I'll rather use this for a databank sort of holder, and just play off of a normal 8mb one, copy and pasting within the ps2 browser option, cause this is to frustrating to deal with on a regular playing basis.not worth 10 cents, graphics are very poor for nintendo 64 The game is very tedious finding pass cards in every level to open doors gets old very quick. The aliens also don't put up a fight just there to die. Co op would be a nice feature but it is the same maps and bots running in circles is boring. After level 2 there seams to be missing the yellow card looked every where and my friend and i could not find it. A much better version of this is availible on the ps1 . definately don't waste any money on this game, it down right sucksDiRT 2 was like this.  I'm becoming more & more suspicious of games like this that require a continuous open Internet to play.  It just seems like bait set out for some young naive prey to fall for.  Does anyone honestly believe that personal information is collected for no particular reason?  I don't care what they say publicly.  Any assurances of privacy protection are quite hollow without close oversight, and nobody's looking.  It's quite a different thing to knowingly step out into a multiplayer server where you know you're being tracked, but this type of continuous spying is something more.  That aside, this carrot on a stick has more problems than just security.

CONS - Requires open Internet (Windows Live) to play.  Annoying interface.  Continuous reminders to upload and download things you already selected not to do.  Most settings don't keep between sessions.  Setting up a race takes way too long.  Irritating "music" you can't turn off (it keeps coming back).  Takes too long to unlock things.  Entire career mode is pointless when the game setup is so irritating I just wanted out.  Video stuttering (possibly my equipment).

PROS - Eye candy.  Plenty of game modes.  Enough tracks to get going.  Fairly good variety of cars.  Scaled difficulty levels from casual to advanced.

I think this franchise, like many others, continues soley for the purpose of farming user information; where it seems the real money is.  If I can't turn it off, and some else controls the on-off switch, that's a problem.  Sometimes it might be worth it, but not here.  I found some entertainment value, but very briefly.  Anyway,  just my opinion...I bought this thinking that an 8MB card would be to small. So I figured getting a larger one would be alright. I was wrong. One of the problems is that it hardly works. There is one main causes to this.
 The casing in incorrect. It's too loose to fit properly and make a clean connection to the contacts. This results in the PS2 recognizing the card about 2% of the time.

So don't buy this. Just go get an official 8MB. Besides 8MB will go a long way.As I expected, this game has good reviews, but does FF7 deserve that praise? No.

It was my birthday, and I wanted a new console and a cool game to go with it. I remembered getting a Genesis with Sonic 1, and having a SNES felt wrong until I got Super Mario World.

I got my mom to get me a PS1 and FF7. All the kids were raging about it. And it was in 3D! Wow, just imagine FF6, but in 3D. Oh man.

Thus began my unfortunate exploration of the JRPG. (I hadn't played FF6 at this point, but I played Chrono Trigger.) The backgrounds looked nice. The music was "epic" and the sound was trash. A lot of the sound was trash. It sounds worse than a SNES game. And what's the deal with the Popeye-looking characters? But something was compelling about the game. I wanted to know what happened next.

The only reason I played games as a kid was to see what happened next. I only wanted a new weapon in Mega Man because it was cooler than the M-Buster. It was a fetish. Mastering a challenge to achieve fun was foreign to me.

The video game industry is an industry--it exists to make money. If a publisher puts out a game that makes money but isn't strictly a videogame, they WILL do it. What was Square's motivation when they developed this game? Tell a story? Let players express themselves through cunning materia strategies and complex boss fights and complex dungeons? Something else? I don't know.

Let's look at what we've got. The game lets you start easy by pitting you against 2 weak enemies. One sword strike will kill them, or you can throw lightning. I think they even give you some inventory items. You can safely see how the combat works. You get to name Cloud and Barrett anything you want. This makes the game personal, but I don't know anyone who did that. It's irrelevant because the bastard is still going to have his existential crisis and behave in ways that you might not choose.

Eventually, you have a boss fight that, thanks to mistranslation, tells you to ATTACK WHILE it's tail is UP. If you do this, the boss will hit a party member, causing you to do the battle the opposite of how they intended. You might even game over. After that, more dialog, and you get to make a choice with Aeris: "You'd better get out of here" or "Nothing...hey, listen...". This affects a cutscene WAY, WAY down the line from here. I never made the connection until recently.

The materia system lets you customize your spells. If you want a mage, you load him with spells, his HP decreases, and his MP increases. It's a good idea to change his "row", making him stand further away from the enemy, thus killing your melee damage, but protecting you from melee damage. The game doesn't handhold; it lets you figure out the finer points of the materia system. I liked how FF6 let your characters permanently learn spells, but FF7 are tied to materia. It's not a bad system, but considering the game is 60 hours long, you might master it before then and get bored.

For years, I've gone back and forth with myself about whether FF7 is good. I've concluded it's partly responsible for making games too casual. Despite that it's an RPG you don't get to make meaningful choices. You get to make very few choices about what Cloud does outside combat, and most of them don't really matter. If we're going to try elevating videogames, it would behoove JRPG fans to demand more choices so they can truly role-play their own "anime hero". I'd recommend giving players choices in story that let them end up a pathetic failure or butt of the joke in their own story. Fail states are important.

Of course that would take a master stroke in storytelling, something videogames aren't known for. Videogames are not literature. For every decent videogame story, there are 10 books as satisfying as eating a meal. Game stories are intentional experiences that happen a specific way. If they don't happen that way, then the designer has to account for that, or face an endless web of possibilities. Games are dumb at telling stories. Even games that give you plenty of dialog options are bogus because the end result is the same. At the end of FF7, there is only one outcome. This is a role-FORCING game.

I'm fine with games having cutscenes per se. If this game was combat, anime, combat, anime, combat anime without any illusions of choice, I'd be perfectly happy with that.

I should've got an N64.Oh, here they come! Can you hear it? The wimpy cries of the thousands and thousands of fanboys and fangirls of this failure of an RPG! I can certainly hear them, because I've been listening to them for the past few years. I will admit, I was excited to play this game at first, seeing as I never played it before Christmas of 2008...but honestly, I wish I had never played it at all. Why? Well, stick around, sit back, shut up and read.

STORY: 2/10
Atrocious. Simply atrocious. You start the game as an ex-SOLDIER named Cloud (default name, seeing as you have the option to name your main character), who is currently an employed gun for a resistance group called AVALANCHE. Why these groups and names have big, capital letters for seemingly no reason is beyond me, seeing as they don't stand for anything. Along the way, you'll meet and greet a number of people who have nothing to do with what you'll be doing in the current area you're in, get pissed off with the inability to comprehend even the slightest bit of dialogue spitting from the mouths of these characters, and finally come to the climax of the game, facing yet ANOTHER completely overrated villain in a battle that will last about thirty minutes...but not because it's hard. It's not. I have so many problems with this game's story...okay, I have a lot of problems with this game PERIOD. You get a total of 9 characters in your party, and guess what? Seven of them have absolutely NOTHING to do with the main storyline whatsoever! The only reason they exist is for party-filling, seeing as they completely blew away any resemblance of a cast and crew of characters that actually mean something to...well, ANYTHING. Two of them you don't even technically have to get in your party to begin with! You can literally beat the entire game--all 13-17 hours of it--with the drooling retards you pick up along the way. The game is so stale and boring in terms of taking your hand and walking you through the story, and everywhere you turn, you can see something you can bitch about for hours. Party members included.

GAMEPLAY: 1/10
Same thing as every other Final Fantasy game released before its time. There's seriously nothing revolutionary about this game. It's the same boring, lazy turn-based system you're used to, except they actually find ways to make it even less enjoyable. The movement of the battles themselves feels and looks glitched, and every time you use an attack, skill, or spell, you'll be sitting there waiting for them to finish with your thumb up your ass. Oh, and if you plan on summoning a powerful magic creature from the Summon materia...well, I certainly hope you stocked up on food, drinks, and toilet paper; you'll be sitting there staring at the atrociously-long summon animations for the next hour and a half before you can even make your next move.

PRESENTATION: 0/10
What are you talking about? This game is CLEARLY not even finished. Do you know how many glitches, bugs, and excruciating errors I found while playing this game? Hundreds. The sickest part? I didn't go out of my way to find them. They came to me. The character models look ridiculous, nobody has anything interesting to say no matter where you are in the game, the battles are boring and unworthy to the franchise's name, and you'll be lucky if you can even make it to the end without exploiting a glitch or two. Or ten. Not only that, but the game is WAY too easy. I literally played through the entire game--story and all--in less than 20 hours. In that time, I never once died or even lost a member of my party (if you're not counting Aeris, seeing as she dies in a cutscene). And hey, if you're having trouble with something, just exploit one of the hundreds of glitches in this game to allow yourself the ability to walk through walls, gain infinite money and items, level your entire party up to 99 in a single fight, deal millions of damage to an enemy with a single hit, or even reset every single in-game switch so you can replay absolutely everything in the game over again with all the stats, items, and equipment you already have. But seriously, who the hell would play through THIS monstrosity anything more than once? This unfinished, broken piece of cow dung is not worth the time.

SOUNDTRACK: 0/10
What soundtrack? It's just a bunch of clicks, screeches, and otherwise infuriating sounds. It's not music. It's a collaboration of anger-inducing noises that will have your TV muted in less than thirty seconds, or your money back! GUARANTEED!

OVERALL RATING: 1/10
This game is even lucky I can give it the rating I did. It's especially lucky that Amazon.com's ability to rate its products only comes in five stars. If it was a standard 1-10 rating, I'd hack my computer to give it less than .5/10, seeing as I can't stand this absolute travesty of a video game. It's a downright abomination to the world, and a big slap to the face of anybody who was seriously into Final Fantasy, like myself. I'm glad I didn't play this game until years after it came out. If I had played it back then, I probably would have been just like all of the other sniveling fanboys and girls and considered it the greatest game of all time. You can't rate a game based on how well it sold, and you can't rate a game depending on the graphics. Why? Because both of those factors are meaningless when it comes to a true review. I strongly recommend that anybody who is interested in buying this game should steer WAY clear of it; it is not worth even the effort to post a picture of it here on Amazon. It's not worth a penny out of your pocket.This game was a rip-off.  It has less terrain, less tracks, and less features than DiRT 2.  The graphics are about the same.  Not worth the money, at all.I'd like to preface my review by saying I had heard A LOT about this game. The main character, Cloud, is pretty famous and pops up in a variety of games (like Kingdom Hearts) so I was really interested in trying it out. That, coupled with the high reviews on gaming sites like IGN, which quotes that FFVII is "The RPG by which all others are to be measured, FFVII is a cinematic wonder" had me thrilled to try this out. For some perspective, IGN quotes my favorite game of all time, Zelda Ocarina of Time, as "IGN64 reviews the biggest game of the decade. Does Zelda 64 live up to the hype?" I never owned a PS until the PS2 & PS3, so I was stoked to see this title come out on the PS network for $9.99.

Now that you know a little bit about what I was expecting from this game, I'll provide a little bit about my gaming style/history before I go into the game review. I'm a huge RPG fan, and I like a variety of games in that style (turn-based, timer, real time strategy, action). I've played a few FF games (III, X, Tactics, Tactics II), and I liked them all, except for X, which I found to be a little too easy, albeit very pretty. I also really enjoy the Dragon Quest games. I've been into video games since I was 5, and apart for a work-induced stint of abstinence in college, I still enjoy video games when time permits.

As soon as I started playing this game I kept telling myself, it must get better. It's just a slow start, surely the story picks up? I pushed on for a few hours, going through Clouds background story and getting an idea of the main story arch before I finally gave it up as a bad job. I'm glad I only spent $9.99 to try this game out, and not $100+.

Graphics:
I'm not sure what IGN is talking about, but these graphic are terrible. Yes, I know the game is from 1997, but Zelda OCT came out in 1998 and it's graphics have held up to the test of time much better. Although the PS and N64 (pre-graphics expansion) are supposed to be comparable, a PS example of an older game with much better graphics is Chrono Cross (1999 PS). The majority of the background for FFVII is a muddy brown that looks sort of like mulch. Also, since it was being released on the PS network, Sony and Square Enix could have taken the time to revamp the graphics (like Nintendo did for OCT on the Game Cube) instead of releasing a game whose graphics are so bad I get a bit of a headache on the newer TVs. Maybe it would look better on an old TV? Who knows. The cut scenes have slightly better graphics, which are almost comparable to Zelda OCT's in game graphics.

Story:
I wasn't really impressed by it, although it it's an interesting concept. I've done my best to be vague in this section so that potential buyers won't have the story spoiled for them.

GOOD/Unique:
When you boil it down, you are basically fighting as an eco-terrorist, and that's an interesting concept.

BAD:
The character integration into the story is very poor. When you look at all the character's background stories, it doesn't make sense that they are all working together. If the game spent more time with them discussing WHY they have their common goal of being ECO-terrorists it would fit better. Aside from the fact that they are all eco-terrorists who live in the same beat down community, they really have nothing in common.

I did not like the characters I had been introduced to, before I quite playing. Cloud is incredibly angsty and self-centered in the beginning, and I found all the social scenes centered on him to be unpleasant. His friendship with Tifa doesn't make much sense to me either. Tifa is a sweet person, and portrayed as kind-hearted, yet she seems to be obsessed with Cloud who is nothing like her emotionally. Barret, um, can we say racist? Barret, the only black person in the game, consistently beats his chest like a gorilla. Yes, let's make the black person look and act like a gorilla.

Gameplay:

Mediocre.

This is the most important part for some people, although I tend to find the story to be nearly as important. For me, if the story is bad, it would take phenomenal game play to keep me engaged in the game. The game play here was average, it has a pretty typical timer set-up, nothing to write home about. I'm not sure if this game invented timer play, if so Kudos to Square Enix. The timer play did make the beginning more interesting in that you were literally thrown into the game with no instructions, so it took a little while to get a hang of the game play. Once I figured out the game play though (~1hr of game time, most of which is scenes) I quickly grew tired of this game.

Summary:
This game has average game play, terrible story, horrific graphics even for a late 90's game, and pretty pathetic characters. I played for 3-4 hours and then gave up on it. My free time is limited, and I don't waste time on games that aren't fun because "they might get better." Maybe FFVII really picks up in hour 4. All I know is that I was very disappointed in the game, and I'm quite incredulous about the higher reviews here on Amazon and on other gaming sites.

UPDATE:
Barrett - when Cloud is introduced to headquarters, Barrett beats on his chest like a gorilla which I found to be a poor choice for the only black character in the game to be doing. However, his overall portrayal may not be that racist, as I only played for 4 hours and many claim he is treated better in the later game.

Despite the comments and emails I've gotten about this review, I still leave it as 1-star. Without the nostalgia goggles I didn't enjoy the story, the graphics, the gameplay, or the characters.When I first bought my PS2, I got FF10, FF9, and FF7.  That was back in 2002.  FF10 & FF9 I liked. Good stories & loveable characters.  But FF7 was a drag.

Then I saw all the positive reviews ("best game ever"), so I decided to give FF7 a second playing in 2004, to impress me.  But I still did not like it.  IMHO the major flaw is that FF7 has too many "dry" sections where you fight-fight-fight and almost nothing happens storywise (example - climbing the 100-floor building of your enemy -or- the dumb section where you waste an hour finding a dress).  In some sections, literally hours pass by with no story... it feels like a step backwards to the near-nonexistent stories of the original nintendo.

.

Also the Battle Engine - totally unbalanced.  A good RPG will provide balance between physical & magical attacks, so they are near-equal.  A good RPG will make each character unique with specific skills & weaknesses (like real people-some are fighters; others are healers). Not so FF7:

- it's all magic... physical attacks are worthless (about 1/4 the damage)

- and the characters are completely interchangeable. You can equip Fire3 to your man & Heal3 to your girl.  And then the next battle, completely flip it around, so the man is the healer & the girl is the killer.  And then flip it again!  No individuality. Each character is identical.  Plus *instant learning* and instant forgetting... not realistic at all.

.

Also, the story, while good, is poorly executed.  It basically boils down to a meteor poisoning the planet's "health" - very simple concept - but the writer dances around & adds un-necessary complication.  He takes 2+2 = 4 and turns it into 1-5+4-6+2-1+7-2 = 4.  That's why so many gamers go, "Huh? What just happened?"  It was a good story, but a lousy script.

Overall, FF7 is one of the weakest games in the FF series (inferior to the other PS1 game-FF9, super nintendo games FF4, FF5, FF6, even inferior to FF10.All right, listen up all you so-called video game "experts" and "critics!" Let me give you the lowdown on Final Fantasy VII.
For the past year, I have stood by Final Fantasy VII saying that it is the best RPG ever created. I was wrong. It WAS the best RPG ever created in 1997. When FF VII first came out on the PSX it was said to be the best game ever put on the PSX. They were right. When it was released in '97 the graphics in the game blew away the graphics of previous games and later games. The storyline itself was gripping and although it had it's dull moments, it culminated in a spectacular finish.
Now I think the reason that most of you think this game sucks is because it has been 7 years, 7 YEARS!! since this game hit the shelves and every year we see new games and flashier graphics. And you DARE compare this game to a PS2 GAME!!!! It's just not fair. The capabilities of the PSX could never, in a million years, rival that of the PS2's capabilities. It's just not gonna happen.
Other than that this game is tolerable considering today's standards. But they will never be able to compete with FF VII's soundtrack, it is beyond competition.
OUT!Are you joking. This is by far the WORST final fantasy in my opinion. Man, are you guys even trying anymore?  I looked at final fantasy x-2 and rented it and gosh, you cant even make a good game out of that.
Man..bad graphics, horrible gameplay, sucky battle system, hard to understand, VERY difficult to get into it, too confusing, dumbxxx characters like cloud, hes the worst.(except sephiroth), sometimes too long of cutscenes, boring cutscenes, you can barely see their eyes & mouth, etc. etc. etc. etc. times a million.
I hate this game.The item did not work at all.  After plugging in all of the cords, nothing happened.  The idea is good, but the product is junk.I bought NBA Showtime with the purchase of my Dreamcast hoping for some real basketball. I was sure disappointed. After playing it twice I put it away for good. The game is stupid. NBA Showtime has the worst gameplay ever. The computer can jump 50 feet in the air to make a block then swish a full-court shot. The graphics are terrible. The players' muscles' are bigger than their heads and they look very unrealistic.
This game blows! It's just like NFL QB Club except for basketball, an NBA 2KX wannabe!
Do not buy this game.  Midway sure know's how to [mess] games up!After buying my Dreamcast used with alot of games, I just noticed that this is the last game I tried out, and the first game that I put away. The gameplay is the shallowest ever. I didn't play (or look at) this  game since I tried it for the first time. The graphics are extremely bad. The players look very unrealistic. The colors in this game are very bad and dark. the entire game looks like an N64 game.
That's about all I have to say about this NBA 2K1 WANNABE GAME!!!
I hope that this review was helpful to you.i wish i did not buy this thing.  it gets in the way all the time, the cables are everywhere and when i dropped it the thing cracked down the middle.  i recommend radioshack itemsSoul Calibur is a classic example of all icing and no cake! The game looks great and sounds great, but its too easy. The game that is supposed to be the game for "die hard fighting fans" is basically a walk in the park. The game is a button masher! I played the game and found that "turtling up" and waiting for the right time to attack or throw is all that it takes to succeed and it even works on the higher dificulty settings.
My major gripe about the game is the dark and demonic story lines. No God fearing person should touch this "demon sword wielding" game (I began to discover the different plots after I played it). I'm not trying to sound like a fanatic but come on why all the demon intense plots in a generally evil game. What sick minds came up with this anyway?
If the game had a better plot (one that involved some thought) then it would be a classic, but as it stands...no.If you want a game that you can master in 5 mins with any character then POWER STONE IS IT. I beat the game as I got it once I discovered "the formula"...
I'll list the pros and cons to give you a fair rundown
Pros
1) Characters are unique and fun with personality, i.e. personal story, ending etc (missing from PS2)
2) Backrounds are the BOSS and fully interactive
3) The moves and effects are radical (King Capcom shines here)
4) Fast action
5) Cool Japanese voices
Cons
1) One dimensional fighting sucks as a 3D fighting game!!
2) Weapons make no sense once you know the formula! They just slow you down and make you a prime target for the formula!!
Overall
Overall this is a DISAPPOINTING attempt at a fighting game. The concept is good but the fighting engine is flawed. Powerstone 2 got it right and is a blast, read my review!THIS IS ABSOLUTLY THE WORST WWE GAME EVER CREATED. THANK GOD FOR THQ. IF THQ CAME IN ALL THE WWE GAMES WOULD HAVE SUCKED REALLY BAD. DON'T RENT THIS GAME, DON'T BUY THIS GAME, DON'T EVEN ASK FOR IT. THE GAMEPLAY SUCKS, THE VOICE OVERS SUCK, CREATE A CHARACTER SUCKS. EVERYTHING FOR THIS GAME SUCKS. DON'T BUY IT.Terrible, horrible, very bad. May be the worst game I ever played! I despise it and it's just no fun at all.Being a South Park fan, I was looking forward to this title.  However, it is SO repetitive and annoying...the turkey level alone goes on FOREVER.  Friends of mine have had the same reaction.  It's a first-person shooter (or should we say first-person snowballer) that just has you running around the town of South Park throwing snowballs at turkeys.  Yeah, I know, according to the packaging, that the game evolves into some sort of space/zombie creature thing, and you're supposed to save the town, but I never got that far due to the overlong turkey-shooting level...when I saw the average 4-star rating, I knew I had to respond.  Perhaps younger people will like this due to the character tie-in, but this 34-year-old was bored and disappointed in this title.People, i wrote this review to warn whatever of you out there want to buy this game. This will make even the most die hard game fans throw their playstations out the window. The games has most of the characters(whoopie...)which are represented with sub bar graphics and pitifull level desighn amoungst other things.the games boring. I rented it and it literally got old after 5 minutes of gameplay. If there is one redemable factor about this game its that you can laugh at how utterly stupid it is. Avoid this nerf dung at all costs.Power comes on but A/V does not work. Be careful from where you purchase. I read "Tested and works great!" But it doesn't. I ordered a NEW A/V cable for Dreamcast and HOPEFULLY, it works.
Turns out it didn't work so it IS the A/V Port. Requested a refund, it was approved, sent system back but DID NOT get a refund. I WILL file a claim.Game play is either to fast or slow. Controls suck. Accuracy can only rarely be obtained.  Despite this you get bumped up to the next level reguardless.  The graphics deffinetly leave something to be desired, like better ones.  Don't waste your money!Finally tested with a new game and the system doesn't work! It just powers on and says insert game disc. It will play all my cds just not game discs? I don't recommend this seller as he said it was a working system and clearly had not tested it fully.Crashed in Vista.  Codemasters told me they don't support it in Windows 8.  Couldn't get it to work even after looking on the Internet.I don't mind if the graphics aren't completely state of the art, but this was ridiculous.  Not only were the graphics terrible, but the rendering engine they used was pathetically slow and the effects were horrible.  I  ran this game on a P3-733Mhz with a DDR GeFORCE256 video card and could not  enjoy the game at any decent resolution because of the huge frame hits you  would receive depending upon where in the track you were.  Terrible.  Even  at high resolutions the cars and tracks looked pixellated and cartoonish.  I-76, which is many years older than this game has graphics which kill NS4.  I am unbelievably dissapointed.i thought this would be a good console, i was very very dissapointed!  it has very few good games, and the graphics aren't all that i expected from it,i sold my DC and now i am waiting for the x box.I bought mine a year ago and i am very pleased with the system. It's graphics are great and it is a lot of fun to play. But the chances are that it will now be a dying system. With Sega getting out of the hardware side means that the customer base will not grow. While more and more PSX2 get into peoples homes the same cannot be said for the DC.  There maybe 70+ games still coming to the DC but as time goes on that number will deacrease. A company is not going to bother with so small a market and that is what the Dc will become.  Over the last few months I have seen DC games disappearing from the local stores as they decided to drop the line. The local video stores around me have dropped Dc. Tonight I found one stores entire DC gear including the systems they rented out up for sale. The DC section had been replaced with PSX2 games.  Sega will also be releasing games for the PSX2 and that alone should be saying alot for what Sega has in mind.  Sega has admited defeat and will leave those that supported it high and dry. The current price is very very good. But it is consol taking it's last breaths.  Was the PSX2 heaps better. I don't think so. Not from what I saw. I enjoy my DC immensly and played it for many many hours. But it's day is gone. The future is the PSX2. A shame really both for Sega and for those who bought into what they thought was a excellent alternative to the big dollar console's.  Because of this I personally will not buy Sega gear in the future.Let's sum up what is great about Dreamcast:  Sensational graphics (equal to PS2), great sound, good controller design and an excellent, although not outstanding, software line up.
Now, what is so bad about the Dreamcast that I would rate it so low ------ Sega Corporation!!!
If you haven't heard the announcement yet, Sega will not longer be making the Dreamcast console.  This means that the chances of many more great new titles being developed is low.  I am basing this statement from my experience with the Sega Saturn.  Once the Saturn production was stopped, only a handful of additional titles were released and very few stores stocked them.
When I saw that Dreamcast was based on DirectX (the same programming API as Windows for the PC) I was very excited, because I was sure that there would be a flood of titles for the Dreamcast.  There are many more titles for Dreamcast but the flood of PC cross overs never materialized and the few that did come (Urban Chaos, Rainbow Six) were bad.
Now Sega has given up on their console and wants to make software for other companies.  I believe that Sega owes it's gamers a little more loyalty than it has shown and I hope that the gaming community reacts by not purchasing Sega software for any platform.  My investment in a PS/1 was good for 5 years.  My Dreamcast lasted six months.  Goodbye Sega purchases forever.To be quite honest, I found this to be the most tedious role-playing game I've ever played. The narrative sequences are ridiculously long, the graphics are mediocre, and the mechanics of controlling other characters in combat is poorly designed. I read a lot of good reviews of this game before I bought it, and I was terribly disappointed.I can't tell you what a piece of dog**** this game is. Like everything else Microsoft makes- it doesn't work. When are they going to take a cue from Apple and make things that actually work the first time and every time. To log onto this game they make you jump through a series of hoops that takes like 15 min. to accomplish. If you want another disappointment from Microsoft, buy some "Games for Windows Live" games.  I just wanted a simple arcade like driving game when I have a young boy visiting. If that's what you want, don't buy this. If you want to hire a consultant to help you run this game, then buy it.  oh, one more thing, every time I do get this game to play my joystick stops working (there's Windows 7 for you)I bought this game way back and recently played it again.. well..

the game was easy to beat when i was 6 and its still as easy.

Well, my problem(s)?

Not enough characters and its just not very fun and.. yeah that makes it boring.. but if ur a fan of the older games ( like me ) you may like this game ( unlike me )

It's cheap now so, I guess it wouldn't hurt to pick it up.. it costs as much cash as to rent a game at the videostore..

so do what you want with it.very boring game.  The graphics are the average 64 graphics that many 64 games had at the time.  Very dull textures.  Even though this game has a neat aspect of movement in every direction, it still lacks fun gameplay.  The music is very annoying and i have heard better on the SNES system quality wise.  I don't reccomend this game even if you are a collector.I think after buying this, my wallet is Forsaken... I am Mistaken that this game is what I bought, it came in a box called Forsaken, I played this game about 3 times before giving it up cause I couldn't control the characters or understand the plot line.  I know that I have skills... but this game made me look stupid.  Cut your losses and buy something else like Quake II... now that rocks.Costing as much as fifty dollars new at the time, I nevertheless was suckered into buying two of these back in 1999 or so when I played my N64 a lot.

The thing is insanely sensitive and easy to break.  The first stupid thing it does is in its use, you put the Gameshark into the slot, then stick the game up on top of it.  As with many cartridge game systems, it seems you need to wiggle it about, and position it just right just for it to work.  I remember spending several minutes during the last leg of my first Gameshark's life trying to adjust the game on top to be slightly lop-sided, because it simply would not work if I just pushed the cartridge down all the way, like it's supposed to.

Of all the functions it has, half of them don't even work.  The function of basically making up new cheat codes based on gameplay regularly froze up games, and at worst, caused catastrophic damage to the Gameshark.  I remember one instance I tried to create a new cheat code, and ended up filling up my entire Gameshark's memory with useless information.  Almost none of the pre-set games and codes worked, names were screwed up with random characters and letters, and largely I had to just guess which code would do what for which game.

The fifteen minute instructional VHS that came with the Gameshark was a hilarious joke---both VHS's had the little plastic tab on the bottom STILL INTACT!  If you still remember how VHS's work, this means ANYONE CAN RECORD OVER THE VHS IF THE PLASTIC TAB IS STILL INTACT!  I could literally have recorded gay porn over the VHS, packaged it with the Gameshark, sent it back for a refund, and they likely would have sent the VHS in a new package to be sold to someone else!

Whatever benefits the Gameshark gives are simply not worth it in the long run.  It doesn't ruin your game permanently, but it ruins itself just fine.  There was never any justified reason for the way my two Gamesharks just simply broke down and stopped working.Read ALL of the reviews for this product. Every bad thing that has been said about it is true. Very unreliable, poorly built product. I've had mine only 4 months, it froze up on me last week, and hasn't worked since. A few other people mentioned that customer service with this company is non-existant. Well, that's true also. I'm really angry and disappointed with both this product, and the company. I mean C'mon, these things are expensive! I'll never buy anything from Interact again.You get some cheats with some games.  BIG deal.  This is nothing compared with how bad it is.  This erased files in three of my games including Zelda.  This also erased some of my friends games.  Please do not buy this!!!Installing the game was a struggle (because of games for windows live bugs).

Some championship races and cars can only be "unlocked" by buying them as an addon to the game. I paid nearly 30 dollars when the game was new. I don't like the idea that I have to keep paying to keep playing.

I noticed no improvement in the physics or graphics compared to Dirt 2.

I tossed it in the garbage and vowed never to buy another codemasters game. I'm really tired of arcade style rally/racing games anyway.

I'll continue to get my fix from Richard Burns Rally, and you should to. :)
http://www.amazon.com/Richard-Burns-Rally-PC/dp/B000C97156/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1341886844&sr=8-1&keywords=richard+burns+rally

Thank you for reading my review! If you enjoyed it, be sure to rate it as helpful.This controller has to be one of the worst out on the market.  It has a horrible design, is made of cheap plastic, and to make matters worse, it's  also highly priced.  Don't even think about using it for games like Marvel  Vs. Capcom, because even casual play will break this controller.  If you're  serious about games, find an import controller made by another company.  Don't even bother with the other Dreamcast controllers out in America, they  are all just as bad, if not worse.Overly complex game.  Start to finish there is nothing exciting included in this game.  Whatever side you play starts with a great disadvantage and it just goes downhill from there.  Not just a challenge, each order is  monotonous and the game becomes disinteresting within an hour.  Don't waste  you time or money.I hate this game so much.
I was warned that the game is difficult to learn. I read the whole 170 page manual before installing it.  I read the 40 page tutorial a second time before playing.  After four hours of trying  to get the game to work I gave up.  I have an engineering degree from MIT  ('93), so I'm not stupid.
The interface was the worst I have ever seen  for any non-Unix software.  Nothing makes sense and C3PO stands there and  insults you the whole time without giving any help.
As it turns out, I  had bad luck the first time I went through the tutorial.  I had started the  game in a situation in which I could do nothing.  Except that I didn't know  that since I had never played before.
Imagine a game of chess with a  twist.  Instead of all 16 pieces, you flip a coin to see if you get any  particular piece--heads you get the piece, tails you don't.  Sound  interesting?  Now imagine that you don't get your king.  Now what?  That's  what the game is like.  Actually, it's worse.  Imagine that you are told  what the pieces do in a book 170 pages long, but that you can't really see  them do anything.  You can't even see the board.  You have to provide 100  detailed instructions about how to move each piece and the instructions  don't make any sense.  For instance, I had a mineral mine that could go  through space, but I couldn't make spaceships. You don't know why you  lost.
LucasArts should never have associated with this garbage.  I  thought that I would never buy another LucasArts game again without playing  it first.  But then I bought Rebel Alliance.  Now I know I'll never buy  another LucasArts game without playing it first.
I tried to give the game  away, but my friend gave it back after one day.  He said it was the worst  game ever. It took him 40 minutes to figure out how to quit (he goes to  Harvard). I tried another friend, but he gave it back (Ph. D. Penn State  Industrial Engineering). I tried another friend (Psych major) who gave it  to somebody else who finally threw it away, but kept the action figure.  I  guess that last guy never played the game because after being insulted for  four hours, I don't know how anybody can like C3PO ever again.
I hate  this game so much.  I regret ever getting it.  In fact, I couldn't play  other LucasArts games that I love for 3 months until I got over the  loathing toward that company. I wish I could give it negative stars. I have  yet to meet somebody (flesh and blood) who likes the game.  My only wish  now is that I had burned the game slowly and watched the CD melt.  This  game is a case study in horrible design and horrible interface.  I wish I  could say that I learned something positive from the experience, so, well,  nevermind.Apparently the way to win this game is to completely disobey your mission objectives.  For instance in the last mission I played (before uninstalling it and throwing it away) I was supposed to pick up a container, protect my  mothership by fending off the attacking tie fighters and fly to a  checkpoint to meet the rebellion.  So I picked up the container and started  killing off tie fighters.  I got them all.  I was killing them as fast as  they were replaced.  Then I got slammed with a dozen missles from all sides  and lost the mission.  I never got notification to go to the next  checkpoint.  The game has a help function after you lose a mission that  gives tips on how to win the mission the next time.  The tip?  Don't  protect the mothership.  The checkpoint won't appear until the mothership  is destroyed.  Besides, if you attack the tie-fighters, then your container  will get destroyed and you won't be able to finish the mission.  That might  be okay, except that the game doesn't tell you that you can't complete the  mission.  Once I just sat there for 10 minutes waiting for something to  happen.  That was boring. After four hours of finding out that I was  supposed to ignore mission objectives and do very little I uninstalled the  game and threw it away.  My only regret is that now I wonder what would  have happened if I had destroyed the mothership myself. This was a definite  waste of money and time.  After my experience with Rebellion, I am now  certain that I will never buy another LucasArts game without playing it  first.This game was bought and rather farfetched. I hoped it would work and It doesn't play story mode at all. So I'm stuck in training mode and can only play the first training session. A shame.I'm slow to give a 1-star rating, but this certainly takes it.  First, the grip is hard.  The grip it thin and small extends vertically from the controller.  The Z-Button on all three of the ones I got broke within a month after moderate use.  The controller gets greasy SO easily.  Never, ever get this, no matter how desperate you are to save money.This is just like an arcade game you play at a bowling alley or something.  For those who like those kinds of games then maybe the game would work for you.  But I found this game extremely boring and no funSave your money and get Roller Coaster Tycoon (1, 2, or 3). Sim Theme Park's graphics look like total s***.This is the Worst Game i ever bought the first time i bought it there was a problem with it and then the 2nd time its was still broken and had a problem with it don't waste ur money on it its so not worth it i still have the game but i've never been able to use it since its so messed upI thought this game looked like it would be great-- but it turned out that it was boring, irritating, not to mention that it has bugs- my computer is almost brand new, and this game would crash every five minutes. A few months later I bought Roller Coaster Tycoon, and I became addicted to it- I LOVE it!  If you are interested in this game, I recommend that you buy Rollercoaster Tycoon instead, it's a lot more fun, and it doesn't have bugs- don't waste your money on Sim ThemePark!Ok,
I'm a HUGE fan of Sim-stuff ... I can't get over how clever they are, how real they play out, how absolutely consuming they can be.
This product is not one of them.
It's awkward, it's punchy, and buggy. It  restricts your creativity in a way that I've yet to experience in any other  Sim game. You are limited to two island scenarios to begin, and they are in  themes like Dinosaur, and Space Ship ... and they are VERY tiny -- not much  to work with.  Creative-wise, you are stuck with rides that are typical to  that particular theme -- IE: your park attendees bounce up and down on a  dinosaur's stomache as one of the rides. *shudder*
I think the game is  ideal for children 10 and under. It's fun and quirky enough to entertain  them, but it's not what you'd typically expect, as an avid adult player,  from a Sim game.
Try Roller Coaster Tycoon if you're an adult fan of  simulated amusement park game software (but even that gets a bit dull after  a while -- it's easy to win and repetitive).
Or try The Sims, it's quite  entertaining, and very well put together.As usual Interact accessories dissapoint. This Tremor Pak jumps too hard for what is taking place on screen and absolutely sucks. The slightest action on screen and it wants to jump out of you hand....not good at all. Instead of adding realism to a game it proves to ba an annoyance!
AVOID AT ALL COST. Get the official Sega Jump pak insteadThis thing does nothing but shake the heck out of your arms when you play. It is at times comical. It makes your controller rattle, you hear shaking noises, and feel like you are having some sort of seizure.
This tremor pack thing will die off in my opinion. It will go the way of Robbie the Robot for the NES. Remember him? Neither does anybody else...
It is an interesting idea, but it doesn't really enhance the games. Just because the controller shakes in your hands doesn't mean you feel like part of the game. In fact, with all the shaking, it might even disrupt your game play. You are much better off getting a visual VMU to put in the front slot, at least that enhances your gaming experience. I have this tremor pack and after playing with it for a few hours I took it out and haven't used it since. Don't waste your money on it. That is the best advice I can give.Hey, maybe I'm doing something wrong but, I haven't been able to get this game to do much of anything... the graphics are poor for this day and age and the controls were even worse... I didn't play very long though, so it's not fair to say it truly [stinks]... Maybe I'll try it again and see if I missed something...The game is honestly one of the best games ever, However it has huge performance issues on modern computers rendering the game virtually unplayable. If you are a stubborn die hard fan like me you will play it this way anyway. Nobody plays online anymore, who can blame them with the problems operating the game, so do yourself a favor and just play starcraft 2 or something else.I ordered the wrong one.  I downloaded and went to play it, I got as far as single player and when I clicked on it, it wouldn't start so that's the reason I couldn't play it.  Gave it to a friend.The game will not load on my Mac. The box says its supposed to. This was a very big disappointment. I was trying to get out of the shooter games.I would like give this game 4 or 5 stars, if I could get it to run. Like others the game crashes on start-up or in the game and Codemasters has been absolutely no help in correcting it. Why they can't get their asses in gear (pun intended) and fix it I don't know, but with so many folks reporting the problem it isn't just occasional. I assume they either can't replicate the problem or just don't care. Lacking any help from Codemasters, I've tried the various fan fixes, including uninstalling Rapture 3D. Also tried installing on Vista and Win 7 and that didn't help either, which is a shame since from the other reviews it seems like a great racing sim.this is an excellent game that really has some substance! the graphics are not the best and it is oversahdowed by the bigger game final fantasy VII. if FF7 was too long for you, get breath of fire 3. the story is good and the battle system is great!Outlaws is a first person shooter set in the wild west. The story line is you play the hero and have to rescue your daughter from the villan. Built on a dated engine with wonky physics, Dated graphics and a 2.5D design. Very dull gameplay with no atmosphere and a box of rocks AI. Gameplay is nothing but shoot the baddies, Find key, Open door, Shoot more baddies, Find another Key ect ect. Outlaws is very dissapointing.This is a bad product, no function withs the LOGITEC EXTREME 3D PRO, I  do not have money tu burn.{YAWN} Very boring disapointing game. Terrible gameplay, graphics, bla bla bla. The cinematics run at an extremely slow frame rate. At least the music is kinda good. I don't recommend this for any god damn gamer. =[...Starcraft is one of the most annoying games ive ever played. Sure, terran  marines give u a little laugh now and then but the controls are  frustrating. You have to right click(why not the usual left-click?) to  select units and you cant deselect them. Building times are extremely long-  and so are the units. Gameplay on my PC is overall boring and slow( on a  Pentium II 400, voodoo3, 96mb RAM). I have only got up to the third terran  mission then finally gave up. And whats up by only controlling 12 units at  a time? The Command Conquer series lets you control all units you have on  screen. Starcraft's ingame graphics aren't that good, FMV qualty is terrible  and Battle.net gives you a pain in the a** because of its slow server and  few options. Westwood online gives the player more options and is also  faster. All in all, i say the command and conquer series is better - go  play tiberian sun or red alert or any other C&C game - SC isn't worth  your time or money.This is a very dissapointing system. Slow loading, Bad graphics, and terrible games. But it has a good controller.Do yourself a favor.
Don't waste you money on these cheap SNES controller knockoffs
You're far better off spending a few extra dollars buying the real thing
Bought it new and the buttons stopped working after only a couple of days
Thanks a lot, TOMEE : (I know what you're thinking... I need another controller. The generic can't be that bad, I might not like it, but I'll be able to play.

No, you will not. You wll hate every minute of this.

As others have said, the buttons are actually ok, but the d-pad will drive you insane. Rage quit-inducing. Don't bother, go out to your local retro store and pick up an actual, old SNES controller. The price will be well worth it. I've pretty much thrown this in the garbage, but I can't seem to bring myself to it for some reason, but it deserves it.Awful! A real disapointment. This game is confusing and boring much like civilization 2. The game cover made it sound much more exciting than it really was. I bought it a while ago from Rinho and it was bran new then. I was sooo dissapointed. It takes forever to play, the battles are cheesy and a waste of time. If you are considering buying this game, I reccomend you try it before you buy it. Belive me it's not even worth $5. I've always been dissapointed with Sid Meier's games. So I think I'll stop trying them. If your considering this game, try Imperium Galactica 2. It's awsome. No comparison. I hope you found this reveiw helpful.This game is very difficult to control and it is extremely boring. It may have been a great game six years ago, but by today's standards this one is a definite loser. Save your money.This game can be described in a few simple words, boring, repeaditive,  bad, pointless.I was a big fan of Parappa the Rapper and I was seriously disappointed with this sequel. It's bad enough that you can beat it in 30 minutes, but what's worse is that you wouldn't want to! The music is just bad and that is inexcusable for a music game. Where are all the catchy tunes? I can't remember one line from this game, whereas I have all of Parappa the Rapper's songs memorized. It's missing those great lyrics found in Parappa like my favorite: "Sunny in my life, she's like a dice, I can't tell which way to turn 'till I spice!" Skip UmJammer and get Parappa.i saw the TV comercial for this game and it looked pretty cool but when i got it for christmas it got very boring i mean all u do is try to get to the other end of the level with ur ball and collect cards so there isn't much to this game i wouldn't reccomend this game 2 many peopleWell, it won't work at all. I put it in my console, and nothing. I looked it over carefully to make sure I didn't buy some...knock off, but it even has etched trademarks, ext. It doesn't recognize the disk at all. So I went to the Activision site to see if I could find some help on this game. And this is what they said...
Problem
Does not load and play.
Solution
Activision has identified a manufacturing problem with regards to its Dreamcast title Blue Stinger. The manufacturing issue involves only a limited percentage of the total product available in stores, but will result in start-up failure on certain Dreamcast systems.
If you experience this problem, we encourage you to call 1-888-402-8951 and The Blue Stinger Hotline will send you a new disc free of charge. You will be asked to return the faulty copy of Blue Stinger directly to the fulfillment house. A prepaid, self-addressed mailer will be provided for their convenience.
Activision is dedicated to promptly delivering replacement discs to affected consumers. We would like to extend an apology to you for the inconvenience, but are confident that once this problem is corrected, you will have an outstanding gaming experience with Blue Stinger and the Dreamcast hardware.
So, I just wanted to post this for anyone else that has this problem, or will have this problem in the future. So far I have only got their answering machine. Let's see if they are still supporting this title and call me back:o)
Craig
UPDATE:  Talked to someone from Activision.  He was kinda floored that there were still faulty copies out there:o)  Guess it's been awhile since it was out.  Anyway, they replaced it as promised.  But, the games really [stinks]!!!  Don't bother.  It's been a while since I even had my Dreamcast hooked up, so I don't remember what it was that I didn't like about the game.  But, I do remember that I knew this was a really bad game in about ten minutes of playing it.  Wasn't even worth my time getting it replaced.You get what you pay for.. what can I say this game really wasn't what I expected.. graphic old, and getting around in the game is clumsy at best... can't recommend...do not like this game it's not the typ of game i like to play. it's morew for a child, im 64 and enjoy games like airborn,pacific assult, and world at war, it's not what i thought.Well I received this title over the weekend, and still have not been able to get it off the  ground.
This is what I am having problems with and have encountered getting technical  support (a nightmare!!).
Game Problems:
1. Going to 'instant action' from the main game menu, I am presented with a CTD (Crash To Desktop), which means the game crashes, and your back at your desktop.
2. In The game, you need to review crew status, mission briefings ,etc. well so far I can not view these, do to they don't appear while in the game.
Applied the latest patch (v1.06) to correct allot of the bugs and CTD, and still have the above problems.
Now the Nightmare!:
* Web Sites mentioned, do not work - Either receive a blank page, 404 Not Found, or Virtual Directory: Access denied error.
* Phone Support - They have changed their number already from the one in the manual. Called the new number, and was thrown into a loop from a dysfunctional automated phone system. And then finally was told I was in a 60 minute call waiting queue.
* E-Mail support - Received an auto response saying their e-mail address is no longer valid. I was then pointed to a new web site which pointed me back to the original Hasbro Interactive Dysfunctional web site.
So I am preparing to send this piece of junk back for a refund. This is the LAST Hasbro/Micrprose software that I buy.This game sucks ass. period. The new vehicles are ok sometimes, but all are slow and horrible to control. The new powerups are retarded , such as skis to go over water but at an even slower pace by 5 times. The old vehicles, and kooky characters are all gone, as is the storyline and anything else fun from the original. Oh, by the way, this was also made by a different company, which is the reason for all this horribleness. So , in summation, stick to the first on e til they come out with a 3rd one on a new system.This game is nothing more than a sick joke.  Really the story absolutely sucks (what motivates one through twenty hours of gameplay?), the humor tries to be funny but comes across as stale, the environment is tedious and boring, the difficulty is Schizophrenic i.e. hikes constantly especially when you fight against the Enclave.  It's like the game itself is a parody of the original Fallout.  If you want a masterpiece of a game, buy the original Fallout instead of this junk.I tried using the game on the PS1 and PS2, and neither worked. This game is a lightscribe disc, and looks to be mass produced by someone.WTF is this crap, this is metroid not castlevainia......this sucks.  PS stop making castlevainia into gay manga garbage it takes all the thrills and scary aspects out of it by making everyone look like a woman with multi colored hair.When I received this game I opened it up and right away started installing it, but wait in all the excitement i didn't notice it being in the cardboard CD holder and because it was the installation wouldnt work why? Cause the CD was scratched beyond repair. Good job Interplay. I will right another reveiw when I receive my new package telling you if the game is as bad as Interplay's packing job.It doesn't make any sense.  How can this game be considered a classic?  It has WAY too many flaws for people to continue naming it "best game of all-time" or "best Castlevania game you'll ever play".
I don't think so.  If you want a "real" Castlevania game, go play Castlevania 64 for the N64.  That's how a Castlevania game should be done.  Not like Symphony Of The Night, which is basically a complete disaster with its many inexplicable problems.
Don't believe me?  You will soon enough.  First and foremost, Konami must think all Castlevania fans are forgetful and dumb.  You see, the game begins with you playing as Richter, and you're back in the final stage of the previous Castlevania game fighting Dracula.  This is ridiculous.  I don't want to play THAT game, I want to play Symphony Of The Night.  You don't have to redo the final fight with Wart in the beginning of Super Mario Bros. 3.  So you shouldn't have to start off Symphony Of The Night by going back and fighting the final boss in the previous game.  What the hell is wrong with Konami?  This whole Richter/Dracula thing should have been removed.
After that's over, the REAL game begins, but unfortunately that's not true.  It doesn't begin yet.  Immediately a screen is shown of Alucard running to the castle (which you unfortunately have no control over).  Once he's inside and the gate closes, you can now play as him, but wait a minute.  There's no music playing in the background.  A game can't really start if there's no music, because the absence of music makes a game feel empty and unexciting.
Luckily, my worst fear didn't come true (that Konami forgot to put music in the game) and you just have to move forward a few steps and battle a few more foes before the music kicks in.  It's about time!  You had me worried there!
But then more problems arise.  In the same little area where the music kicks in, you encounter these zombies that come out of the ground and walk towards you, and many times you never see these zombies coming until it's too late and you take a hit.  Pesky little things like this are just one of many reasons this game is almost completely unbearable.
Eventually you meet up with a young lady named Maria.  She's extremely attractive, and knows just how to push the right flirting buttons.  And that's a big problem.  The way she seems to come on to Alucard and practically drool all over him is such a turn-on to the player that it's very difficult to move forward and continue on with the quest.  After a Maria encounter, you can't stop thinking about her beautiful pale face, those big beautiful eyes, that smooth relaxing voice, and so then what happens after that is, when you are in the middle of a serious battle, you almost always die because you can't stop thinking about Maria's beautiful face.
Konami must not understand that mostly boys play video games.  I shouldn't have to say it, but I think it's obvious that the creators of Maria are disappointed in themselves for creating such a good-looking woman, because one look at Maria distracts boys everywhere.  They shouldn't have made her look so pretty.  Because of this, only the strongest male gamers will be able to complete this Castlevania adventure.  Had she been less attractive, guys would be able to better concentrate on the game.
You're probably thinking by now "Alright, talk about the actual GAME!"  Okay, I will, but you won't like what I have to say.  It's just really painful for me to pick out all the problems in this supposed classic.  Basically, it all boils down to one thing.  The fact that some weapons in this game are incredibly slow, weak and almost useless.  Yes, I'm talking about the Jewel Sword and the Sword Of Hador.  Konami never should have put these two weapons in the game.  But because they did, we have no choice but to put up with them, and I have no choice but to complain.  These two weapons really drag the game down.
I could go on and on about the many problems you will see in this game.  Twice in the game you will have to fight a guy who looks exactly like you, which if you ask me, lacks creativity.  Konami wasted a good opportunity right there to come up with new and exciting bosses to fight, but no, they had to go with the old predictable mirror match.
Many enemies have blood fiercely squirting out of their bodies when you attack them, forcing me and my children to look away from the TV screen.  Because me and my children understand that if we look at the screen and see this violence, we will throw up all over ourselves and even worse, we might even have trouble making it through the day without screaming in fear that the same brutal treatment might happen to us if we're not careful.  A little bit of blood is fine, but some of the blood in Symphony Of The Night is a bit too graphic and plentiful.  It's enough to terrorize you.  So the best thing to do would be to try and jump over these bloody enemies so you won't have to attack them, though in many places, avoiding enemies won't be easy.
Finally, the biggest problem.  The second castle in the game is just the first castle turned upside down, so it's not really a new castle.  Now that's what I call clumsy.  Between the smutty actions of Maria and the blood all over the place, it feels like I'm watching a porno blood fest.  Not a pretty thought, is it?  So as you can see, many problems prevent this game from being a classic.  Don't even think about buying it.A lot of good reviews--two perfect 5 star reviews even. Amazon.com gets to choose which reviews are "featured", so that's not really much of a surprise.
You should definitely read more reviews. The graphics are okay, but the design of the graphics in this game are considered to be very cartoonish by many. Bright oranges, glowing blues, and odd color assortments await you in this game. Do yourself a favor and search for the original Battlezone. That was a game I played so many years ago I can't even remember when, but I remember clearly the missions and the specific gameplay elements because it was so good. The story made more sense, the missions didn't tell you exactly what to do (you had to figure it out, which was the fun part), and the overhead map was accessible from the push of a button rather than getting out of your vehicle all of the time. To summarize what these reviews (on the first page) are all leaving out:
- You'll have to get out of your vehicle constantly. Because the drivers of other vehicles just aren't smart enough to do the job themselves. You'll also have to do this to access the tactical map, the only way of ordering units around without actually driving there (by which time the units in question will have already been destroyed, too little, too late)
- Missions aren't involving, and the story doesn't continue from the original game. In short, there's really not much of a story, as you'll find yourself doing strange things that you've been ordered to do for no apparent reason
- Interface is cluttered, buttons rearrange themselves based on the order that you built things, and it's a nightmare finding the right keys to press during the heat of battle. In many games, the only deciding factor of whether you'll win or lose is if you find the right keys fast enoughThis game stinks. Anyone who liked the intense and realistic qualities of the first Army Men game will be disappointed with this effort. The 2 player mode has been destroyed, the beautiful graphics and environments are gone, the fast and smooth control is gone, there are no more allies to assign for  attack or defense, the operation of hand grenades, bazookas and mortors is  inferior, in the one player mode the tank is not able to smash a wooden  fence. There is an annoying arrow at the feet of the character which points  you in the direction of the enemy thus taking the fun and suprise out of  setting ambushes, the global ban on land mines has reached this game as  players are not able to set mines. The sound effects have been emasculated,  no piercing death screams. No jeeps, no .50 caliber guns. This game must  have been designed for the N64 as it does not come close to living up to  the high standards of the 1st game (Army Men 3D)for the Playstation.  If you like combat reality games buy the  excellent Medal Of Honor, it is everything that this game is not.I rented this game from blockbuster and hated it. I played it for about three minutes then turned it off. The graphics are pukey, the controls are pukey, the sound is pukey, and everything around it is pukey. Don't rent it, don't buy it. Thank You.Hated it  constantly fighting the controls and it wass just terrible all in all, will never buy an old tomb raider again!!I got this game for ten bucks on the bargain pile. It blows it is a boring extremely hard game. I liked the movie option, graphics and real car phisics. The story was okay not great. The controls were horrible. The missions are extremely unforgiving and hard boring. The first mission took us 3 weeks to fufill. Also your stuck in the car driving around. The missions are so hard by the time you know how to beat them its just memerizing a boring path. It's not even challenging fun. It is more like boring impossible!! Also you can't see in front of you. I'm still on the first city. On the good side you can go to a option you have called take a ride which allows you to go out and wreck havac in the city and have cops chase and then turn the car chases into movies. Also there are driving games like pursuit and Getaway, carnage, surviver and time trials ect. There fun for a while you can also turn them into movies. Also I think this has much improovement from the PS1 version by far. But still this game is horrible. The story mode is by far the most hard boring and unforgiving I've ever seen. If you want a fun wide variety driving game for the PC reserve GTA3.
  Pros: Lot's of non story games
  Good Graphics
  Way better than PS1 version
  There is movie editor
  Real Car fisics
  Some might like Story
  Cons: Boringly Hard Story Mode
  Bad Controls
  Game is Uneccesasseraly hard
  Can only stay in car
  Huge lack of Mission Variety
  Large Lack of Car Variety
  Game gets incredably boring and hard
  Missions very unforgiving
  Probily takes at minimum 15 restarts to complete a average missions
  Cops will start a dangerous car chase for speeding and don't stop when you stop to them
  Cops to easily provoked
  Cops go to dangerous lenghts to get you for a minor violation.
  Unrealistic and Dangerous Cop AI
  Can't run over Padestrians

 So if you want a wide variety driving game where you can get out of a car and get in another and more mission variety reserve GTA3.This rumble pak is too big, uses up batteries rapidly, it's so heavy that you hardly ever feel the rumble, Nintendo should have built-in rumble in thre controllers this sucks.I read lots of great reviews for this game that made me want to play it.  It will not play on my XP.  Talked to a lot of other gamers that tried to help but nothing worked.  Am holding onto it in case I can get a chance to play it on another computer.  I don't think it is XP compatible.I was excited when i got this because i had trouble finding the right one. However when first plugged in it seemed to work fine. Then after only 2 min of game play it stopped working on ch3. Ch4 worked but it was fuzzy and no sound. I then called the company i purchased it from and they offered no help. Not happy about this product.What I expected was another Total Annihilation, but obviously I was at err, I don't know who made this game but if it was the original design team of TA then they were smoking somethin that made pretty colors dance across the screen. Ok, bottom line, TA kingdoms is by far the worst possible  stradegy game ever! It is SO slow on my P2 450mhz computer( after I got  about 50 units or so) it was ridiculas! I mean it was like watching your  units walk through glue because the game slows down so bad, it took my  little army of 30 units 15 minutes to reach the enemy base! Also 3D  acceleration for this game is non-existent! In the original TA the computer  cheated, but it wasn't to an extream sence, here they made it ten-fold!  Whenever you aren't looking over the enemy's base, they make units in 3  seconds or less, they can make thousands of units with only one lodestone  in place! its ridiculously IMPOSSIBLE in skirmish(when you are just getting  your defences finished they will have those plus a 30+ army coming to  attack your base) and just plain weird in campaign mode. Do not buy this  game, buy the original TA, its WAY better, trust me. Avoid Kingdoms like it  is a urine cup used to serve apple juice!When I got this game I played it for about 2 days and decided it sucks.
Then after a couple of weeks I played it again because some friends said it was cool. I thought I should give it another chance and I played it with friends, but the game just doesn't appeal to me.
It's quake 1/2/3 for me! (even though 3 was a bit disappointing).
I don't get how everyone just seems to like UT.
This is the game that got me back to playing games that actually have a story.I don't know what everyone else sees in this game and why they consider it so addicting and cool, it, like Quake 3 is just mindless shooting only leaving you angry. Everyone in the UT community rocket jumps, a cheap way of getting a quick kill, and very annoying at the same time. This game is plagued with rocket jumping! There are alot of things I hate about this game, too many to list here anyway.I got this on sale and decided to have a look based on its low price and 5 star rating.  What a joke!
It's like Starcraft with bad graphics, zilch instructions and awful controls.  There are better games out there that are free!Im writing this review about amazon.com on this game I purchased because either Amazon.com or the Seller has issues. What is pictured is the BLACK labeled for sale and under sellers or Amazon.com have no idea about these things maybe. They also have the greatest hit. So this pretty much is lieing to US the consumer about the product we are trying or about to purchase. Everyone just watch out because if you want the BLACK label game and you may receive the GREATEST HITS version of the game."I am only left asking, "how long until Daikaitaina 2? "" - Ha-Ha-Ha-Ha-Ha-Ha-Ha!
I really tried to like this game.
I felt like screaming "Turn the lights on!" during the first level. What a murky morass. I installed this game twice and I still can't stand it.
What angers alot of gamers is this: We wonder what games didn't get made because "Daikajokea" sucked up so much cash?I rue the day this title came out for Playstation. It was considered so original, it influenced many, many stealth-type games that followed it. Too many.

Where do I start with the things I hate about this game?

1. It's way too difficult. You get awfully sick of hearing "Snaaaaaaaaaaaaaake!" every 10 seconds. There should have been a way to ratchet down the difficulty even further for 'tards like me. "Easy" mode really isn't.  Sheesh.  I wonder what "Hard" mode was like.

2. Way too many cutscenes! I've never seen anything like it. There's one cut scene that goes on for like 30 minutes. This has got to be the talkiest video game I've ever played.  And these dialogues are all so silly, and you're pretty much forced to watch them or you won't be able to understand what's going on. In fact, I would say that most of your time in this game will be spent watching cutscenes. It's not so much a video game as a movie in which you are occasionally allowed to press buttons.

3.  I hate video games that won't let you pause at certain moments, as this won't.  I wouldn't advise playing this if you have a wife or mother who's gonna occasionally ask you to help her in the kitchen:  you'll find yourself saying, "Yeah, I'll help you after this scene finishes . . . in about half an hour!  Not allowed to pause it for some reason!"

4.  Even more excusably, there's not way to pause the cutscenes.  You can't even pause the codec dialogues!

5.  There are many scenes in which the game disables your weapons and accessories for no logical reason other than that if it didn't, the scene would be too easy.

6.  There are far too many boss monsters.  It's like every other encounter is a boss monster.  The first part of the game (say, up until the first encounter with Revolver Ocelot) is pretty great, but that's not representative of the game:  after that it's basically an unending series of boss monsters.

7.  Frustratingly, you have to fight several boss monsters twice because they never seem to die.  Having to "kill" the same boss monster over and over again makes you feel like you're going in circles.

8.  The principals having these deep discussions about delicate emotional issues while an enemy is shooting at them or while a timer is ticking down. Was this written by a 14-year-old?

9.  The system for flattening oneself against a wall is not ready for prime time:  most of the time you find yourself flattened against the wall and you didn't mean to do this.  This will get you killed several times as you are thus basically standing still, allowing your enemies to shoot you.  It should have been running up to a wall in combination with pressing L1 or something.

10.  The way your guy stands there uselessly for about two seconds after choking somebody.

11.  The way you can easily bypass critical lifesaving devices, such as the thermal goggles.

12.  The way the game takes all these cheap shots at you:  you can't look ahead because your radar is "jammed" and then you get shot by a security camera.  Or blown up by a mine.

13.  The way you are prevented, after having killed a boss, from going back into the battle area and collecting the stuff you didn't collect during the battle.  Is it there or not?  So why can't I get it now?

14.  The absurd anti-nuclear message at the game's finale.I am going to make this short but true.  First off this game is HARD or at least what I played. this game is no Shoot them all like Quake 2 or anything.  I found this game Repugent.  I don't even want to try it again.  I don't care if you have 1000 weapons, if you can't beat the first stage  with Ease, then forget about the rest.  The Graphics in this game are  Dated back to the DOOM age.  This 5 year opus did not pan out like I  wanted.  I really thought John Romero actually had some skill but it seems  not.  The game might have good points but the save system (save only if you  have a crystal?) is an abomination.  This is a horrible idea which is seen  way too much in Console System games, but never should have made it to the  PC.  I admit Ion Storm Made has made a killer game (Deus Ex) but this one  is just a pile of turds.  Bargin Bin Box.  I also just want to close with  this.  We can now see the real genius behind Doom, and Doom 2, was John  Carmack, not John Romero.  Sorry about being rude and mean, but this game  is really horrible, and I just want to be honest.Dont ever, ever buy this game! I knew it was going to be bad. So far this game beat the record for the shortest stay in my hard drive, even beating Trespasser by 2 days. A game that took 4 years to develop, well, you know  something's not right. Lets start with the graphics. Really very dated  OpenGL graphics. If this game came out 2 years ago, it would've been  awesome. Interface: No In-Game save. Only way to say your progress is by  picking up Save Gems. No Gems, no save. Control: Ok, so it's like any other  first person shooter which is why I gave this game it's one and only star.  AI: very very bad. Talk about having your AI teammates to back you up.  You'll be saving them most of the time instead of them helping you. Also,  there is a tendency that your artifical teammates to hit you by mistake.  Story: just watch the old TV series "Time Tunnel". Overall: spend  your money on another game.After all the years and all the hype I expected that this game would have *something* to recommend it.  Sure, I realized it wasn't going to be the GAME TO END ALL GAMES.  I always make sure to discount 25% for hype.  But,  my gods, what a poor showing this is!
There is next to no innovation.  The graphics look like they were salvaged from Quake, the puzzles are of  the annoying "find the panel that opens the door way the hell over  there and backtrack, etc" style.  The sense of immersion is zero.  The  sounds are poorly choosen.  The enemies are, for the most part, utterly  uninspired.  The load times between segments (which uses the Half-Life  formula) are ridiculously long.  It's also utterly unstable and prone to  crashing at any given moment.
Well, you get the point.  If this were just  another generic first person shooter that was being sold from $20 on the  discount rack, maybe I wouldn't feel so annoyed.  As it was, I went back  and exchanged it for "Soldier of Fortune" which, well also not  ground breaking, is solidly entertaining and, at least, mildly  innovative.
Please, folks, don't get sucked in by the hype.  Save your  money for something better.  In the meanwhile, I'll be hoping that Ion  Storms next big product, Deus Ex, does a better job of living up to its  reputation.This game is more fun than having a bag of hammers dropped on your head, but not by much. A game where you rely on stealth and not your trigger finger is a good idea but I CAN'T SEE ANYTHING. I knew that I was in trouble on the very first mission. It went like this:  Me: "Where am I? Is this a wall or a door? I'll just open it-" Guard: "Hey!" Me: "Oops!" Guard kills me. The End.
Wow. That was fun. Hoo-boy!I have little patience when it comes to games like this.  Makes me wish I hadn't bought it and I am still trying to get rid of it.  Before buying take mine I will mail it to you before I hurl it through the wall.  EGM  said this was a good game and usually they are right.  Well they blew it  this time.  Don't get me wrong it might be fun.  Good concept, interesting  story,  Terribly frustrating gameplay and absolutely ridiculous boss  fights.  I never knew the playstation load time to be this irritating until  I died 50 times in a row.  O' YE OF LITTLE PATIENCE AVOID THIS ONE!Straight up, this is a sub-standard 3-D environment game, lacking originality and fun, looking to catch the little kids with its high cute factor. If you want an action game, this isn't the place to look. This game is my worst PlayStation game EVER!Never before in my gaming experience have I been turned off from a game in the first minute of game play.

The biggest pro in this game is the fact that you can fart and burp and that, my friends, is a sad, sad thing indeed.

The programmers could have saved the gaming community the misery and not released this albatross at all. Heck, I probably would have paid them the 5 bucks I bought it for not to put it on the market and it would have been a win-win for everyone.

I love GTA. It's a great game, but why does the '88 NES Super Mario Bros. have superior graphics to a PS1 game from 1999. It defies rational explanation and this game defies all rationality itself.

I am ashamed to call this a GTA game or even a product from Rockstar.I had this game a while ago. I loved it almost as much as I loved the SNES version. I liked being able to play a girl, and to get a cat, and I also liked that this was back when you could decently play the game and turn a good in-game profit WITHOUT the optional help of the sprites (all other HM recently, I've noticed you NEED them...I'd rather do the farming myself than pay a stupid lil sprite to do it)...but I was sorely disappointed that the marriage system is completely missing from this game.

And thats not the worst of it...

This is a 'real time' game, and after a while, either it decides you're not playing enough, or the time system just breaks...either way, unless you play it almost nonstop, it will start killing your plants and your livestock will mysteriously hate you.

Its good fun while it lasts...but it doesn't last long enough to even win it.Given that I have upset many people with my controversial view of this (cough) classic I decided to give it a second chance.
Let's see let's put it through the test.
Graphics: 1 out of 5 (it fits on the Gameboy Color, that's pathetic for a PSX)
Sound: 1 out of 5 (fairly decent sound effects, bad music)
Controls: 1 out of 5 (these are the worst controls ever)
Fun Factor: 1 out of 5 (I still returned it the next day)
So there you have it.  This is a very bad game and I would rather have my tounge frozen to a pole with rabid poodles knawing at my ankles than play this again.  Word of advice, buy a PS2 and get Grand Theft Auto 3, you will not regret that financial investment.I thought the Clock Tower games looked interesting, but I was sorely disappointed.  The controls (point-and-click) are out-of-date and sometimes do not make sense, the voice acting is AWFUL, the movements are SLOW, the  graphics are mediocre, the storyline (as much as I could handle) was  corny...  There are many endings to the game, but who can sit through  it?
VERDICT:  Don't even rent this one, unless you are a HUGE (and  curious) fan of the first game.Okay is this a April fools joke this game is terrible mortal kombat in 3D what were they thinking this game is bad really bad mk4 in 3D that just puts the other ones to shame. so midway check your mk games before bringing them out because this game just sucks don't even buy it i don't recommend it to any mk fan the controls are terrible so i could go on but theres so much wrong with this game that's why i gave it 1 starsThis wwf game sucks...
Boring...Graphics are alright...It was just plain awful EVEN FOR IT'S TIME!
UGH this game was slo[...] get this game..
GET NO MERCY!  BEST WWF GAME EVER!...
This game was very dull and boring...
If I could give it a zero I would...THIS GAME FLAT OUT SUCKS!
good thing I Baught this for a 2 bucks....But still that was a waste...
LaterIs this series still around? Why? This game gets old REAL fast and is a waste a time. I honestly cannot think of one positive thing to say about this game. The music is...nevermind. Well, the graphics are...forget I said anything. Thanks a lot, Midway.This game is fun until it freezes, one, two, three, four, five times in a single day of playing. I think the vendor sold this copy because it was defective. Not my first time experiencing this issue years ago it was the same thing. But with games going down in quality who can blame me for taking a chance.This game is not the version I remember. It feels very clunky and the load times are hardly tolerable. Try another version for your MK3 fix.I *hate* this game.  Let me state right away: graphics in a WWE wrestling game mean absolutely NOTHING to me.  The graphics in WWF War Zone are pretty good (and original, back in the day) but who cares?  It seems the only thing wrestling video game fans today are interested in is looking at their television set in amazement because the wrestlers look realistic, and their movements true to life.  Who cares?  When War Zone first hit the scene in the late 90's yeah, the graphics WERE cool.  Not now, especially when the only thing the WWE cares about these days is impressing gamers with realism.

You know, WWF War Zone was the very first game that brought the graphics to a whole new 3D level.  A whole new level of crap.  You see, it makes me sick that the WWE wrestling games for 10 years now are all basically the same.  Let me explain why this is a bad thing.

You know when you buy an updated sports video game (such as football or hockey) and the only thing different about it from the previous year are a couple new player names, and maybe some new options here and there?  That's exactly what the WWE has done with their video games.  For the last 10 years all the WWE games have been WAY too similar to each other, and it completely sucks out the fun when every new wrestling game that hits the market only offers a slight difference over the previous years game.

It doesn't matter if it's Smackdown, Smackdown 2, WWE Raw for the Xbox, WWE Wrestlemania for the Gamecube, etc.  Those games are all the same- a lousy attempt to impress gaming and wrestling fans with realism.  I'm all for realism, but it DOES NOT MATTER in a wrestling game.  A wrestling game is like any other video game in that it SHOULD be all about having fun with it.  And I can't have fun with a wrestling game released today that, more or less, is exactly the same as a wrestling game from 10 years ago.  It makes me sick to think 10 years later, hardly anything has changed in the world of wrestling video games.

Before WWF War Zone, you had WWF In Your House which, to this day, is a game that completely stands apart from other WWE wrestling games (along with WWF Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game).  Before those games you had the button-smashing delight of WWF Raw on the Super NES and Sega Genesis.  Once again, the formula in those old-school wrestling games didn't stick around and overstay its welcome.  Over 10 years with games just like WWF War Zone IS too much.

The very second WWF War Zone came out on the Playstation and N64, it all went wrong.  Game companies got the idea that people wanted realism in their wrestling games, so from that point on ALL the WWE games had to be about having realistic-looking gameplay and wrestler appearances, and the fun factor washed away like sandcastles on the beach.  It's hard to have fun with a game when the year before you were playing the same thing.  After a while you get sick of it.

WWF War Zone is an innovative game for taking wrestling to new heights, but it was the WORST thing that could have happened.  Graphically, WWF War Zone is the first of its kind.  Being the first means it's bound to have some flaws (despite the fact that existing is its biggest flaw!)  Another MAJOR problem with the game is how SLOW it is.  After the adrenaline-rushing WWF In Your House, we now experience wrestlers walking around in the ring VERY slowly.  Painfully slow, in fact.  Going from WWF In Your House to WWF War Zone is like going from a cheetah race to a snail race.  Your grandparents can wrestle each other faster than the wrestlers in this game.  To be fair, the ONLY thing WWF wrestling games today have improved is the speed.  Everything else is the same as it was 10 years ago.

WWF War Zone also started the popular "create a wrestler" mode.  But it doesn't matter because, as I mention above, wrestling games for 10 years have had that option.  It's an option that has lost its charm because of overkill, and it's time game companies got rid of it, or did something to drastically change it.  It was a fun and interesting idea at first but now, 10 years later, I don't want to have it in a wrestling game ever again.

I tried getting rid of WWF War Zone at a yard sale but no one wanted it, so I had to get rid of it by throwing it away.  No way was I keeping such a crappy game in the same shelf with MUCH more deserving Playstation games.

If only WWE was more innovative with their wrestling games today, instead of repeating the same formula every year, I wouldn't have to keep going back and pointing out WWF War Zone as the game where the downfall began.  After 10 years, updating the graphics and adding just a few new options and wrestlers doesn't get the job done.I first bought this game in a Hastings book store a long time ago and I've been a Mk fan for quit some time, so I went ahead and bought it thinking "This is great! I've got MK trilogy that has all of my favorite characters in it. And Midway makes really great games.(LOL) And I managed to find it in a five dollar bin. This is truly a lucky day for me."
Until I played it....

Then as time went on, I kept it in my basement, and then one day I decided to bring it out because I hadn't played it in a while and I forgotten all of the moves. So I went to the options menu and put it on a pansy level so I can get the feel for it again. Then I remembered why I put it the basement. What I should have done was bury it in the back yard, never to see the light of day again.
As soon as the first round said "FIGHT" I might as well thrown in the towel. The game was gracious enough thou to just stand there for two seconds and let me get one shot in even thou I was 99.9% dead anyway, I mean, what the F is the point?!

I don't even think the skill level even works.
The only way to make it up the ladder without facing brutalities and stage fatalities is if you were to play as Kintaro, (he's your best bet.)
If you play as Motaro you will get your a** handed to you literally! (Pun intended).  The A.I. actually puts any character to uppercut him and send him flying almost out of view of the screen! But if you were to uppercut the A.I. Motaro, he only staggers, can't have him flying into the air, oh no, that would require fairness in the game.

MK has been known for the copy and paste routine on characters, and MK Trilogy is the crowning achievement of it. The male and female ninjas, and if a guy has a bike helmet and armor pads that they bought down over at Wal-Mart and calling them cyborg ninjas, you know this is a cheap a** game. What the hell was this game made off of, a 50$ budget? I guess Wal-Mart was selling helmets and bike armor pads on a half off sale.

If the Matrix was to take a glitchy $***, I'm sure that it would look something like this. For every time it loads a match, I can actually hear my PS one groaning like it was trying to pass a cinder block.
If that PS could talk it'd say, "Oh lord... please... help me!" :(...

I can see now why it was in five dollar bin, but I remember that there was a trash bin next to it, and if I knew then before I bought it, I would have said; "Hey, this is in the wrong bin."

Its hard to take this gory game seriously if that douche bag Dan Fordan's big fat head keeps popping out saying "Toasty." I wouldn't be a damn bit surprised if I saw Charley Sheen pop-out of the corner and say; "Already got your money dude."

And when it says on the back of the game. "Seven humiliating stage fatalities that sends your opponent plummeting to there embarrassing death." That's you, your the opponent. The A.I. will make sure of that.

As for brutalities, who the hell takes the time to flush there life away to memorize twelve different moves just to do one lousy move so a guy explodes? Wow. I never seen five skulls and twenty femur bones pop out of a guy a before. Apparently Ed or any of the designers of this pile of $*#& game, doesn't know a damn thing about the human anatomy. Its bad enough that you have to remember all the fatalities and trademark moves, now this?

To sum it up.
The game play was awful.
The A.I. is cheap.
Glitchy as hell.
They copy and paste the characters as they always do.
The option menu is useless.
The video resolution looks like it was filmed through a potato.
The audio is awful.
And the story sucked.

Forget water-boarding. Forget Guantanamo bay. That would be considered a health spa compared to this game. S*#$, force a terrorist to play this game for 8 hours strait, and he'll tell you on how to cure any form of cancer.

I can't believe how these retailers on here are pricing this POS at $99.99. Hell, there's some retailers on here that are ranging this torture device, at $150.00. Yeah, good luck with that guys. You let me know how well that works out for ya.
Any poor bastard that was unfortunate enough that played this atrocious, inhumane, intolerable game, with a brain stem knows, this game couldn't be given away.

This game is ranked right next to the Jumanji board game, both should be thrown into the sacred ark, welded shut, put into a create, and shipped to a warehouse somewhere, and there it will be "dealt with TOP... MEN." Because this game will melt your face off while you're screaming in agony.

Looking back on my teenager days where I was young, dumb, full of ***,  and didn't know any better, I was easily manipulated into crap like this. So of course I would defend games that I didn't know anything about. Of course I would deny that I've been taken advantage of.  And now we see the same types of teens that are doing this all over again. They'll read this review and say, "Oh how dare you talk that way about MK! Even thou I didn't grow up with it... bla, bla, bla." I doubt that any one of them ever played this game on a PS 1. They'd argue that they'd played it of off their iphone or somethin', and say it's the same thing. NO! By then, the bugs have been fixed and it's NOT THE SAME. YOU'RE PLAYING IT FROM A PHONE! It has to be from a P...S...1! Hell to them they'd considered it a retro game. They can't judge a game accurately that wasn't in their childhood. All they can do is look at it from a future point of view. As for us 80's babies, we grew up with this crap. It's only right that we judge it from OUR timeline, no one else's.  And it's hard even to this day, to let go of something that, even thou I've been scammed by marketing-ploys by some cheap broken product, I grew up with them. But ultimately, you have to say to yourself, that I've been had and it's time to let go.

I would not recommend this game to anyone, unless you enjoy yelling at your TV screen all night, then look no further.
But if you care about your sanity, and want to keep it intact. Then stay the hell away from this thing!  You'll find no entertainment from it. And that's where it fails, it fails at what the main purpose of this game was made for, ENTERTAINMENT!

All it will do, is poison and scar your mind for life. You'll never be the same again.
You'll feel cheated, lied to, manipulated, used, frustrated, raped and robbed.
That's what you'll be left with. Enjoy.Cause thats what your gonning to be doing alot in the entire game. Move this block, move that block. Put this block over there & make sure its fits in place with the correct image matching the wall
And flip & stack them too. Now pull this lever & go to the next room over & do more block puzzles. Fun right? Such a load crap

Everything is very cryptic
Nothing is explained

Lame powers

Poor boss fights

Easy to get lost

You have to shift inbtween worlds to advance
But somehow this also changes the areas shape too?

How does that work?
It doesnt. Hes shifting from life & dead
Not to another Dimension

Your life bar also changes shape & size too for w/e reason

Your walking makes this god aweful sound

Humans you meet don't speak a lick of english & also make a annoying fake gibberish.

Lame ending bossLooking for rise off of naked blue men with green capes reminding you of your hero to save you. Well this game is for you. I first got introduced by one of my friends I mean an acquaintance. His favorite games soon showed me that he really wasn't all that bright. He said (In a gay womenly voice) "Hey try this game out." So I said hey what the hell. As I took it home I hid it away so no one would see it. So I popped it into my Playstation and even it rejected it. So after a couple of trys it finally ran. So the title screen appeared...I never knew this was an alien/vampire porno flick. The idea of impailing naked green "Slaughs" as their called in the game isn't my idea of a thrill. After killing them their balls shoot out numbing the mind into thinking why the main character would have to eat them to gain energy. Wow now I know im scared. Then the mysteriousnes of tredding through the two mystical worlds (one retarted...another more retarted) is as amazing as tredding through a piece of sh*t. Answer me this: If a vampire/gay alien, has his mouth ripped off how can he eat balls or talk? Its amazing!! "Feed on the balls of your enemies" "Explore the vast pieces of crap and an extra bonus its a ball buffet!!" The main character is not only a gay alien but is supposedly a vampire. His arch enemy is another vampire but is about...I don't know a billion times better then him (Just a rough estimate). The most amazing complex part of the gameplay is his amazing three hit combo. WOW THREE HITS!! Then press x to dodge/lunge and triangle to impale. Oh the complexity. My mind strains over this sh*t. Well if you like to get off to blue alien like men...Go for but I suggest you don't waist your money.Mortal Kombat Mythologies sucked just as much as the other MK Adventure games. Those being of course,Special Forces and Shaolin Monks. The storyline in this game is set years and years before the first MK Tournament took place. I guess you could call it a pre-quel. The gameplay is absolutley terrible. The controls are very unresponsive and there are WAY too many cheap hits that you take in this game. MKM mixes both repetive digitized graphic gameplay and awful acting in FMV sequences. As many have said,this game is extremly difficult. Hell,I had a VERY hard time beating it,with cheat codes...and with it being on very easy. All this mostly due to all the cheap hits that you get hit with by different enemies. There is also puzzle solving as well. Most of which will have you pulling out your hair. Overall,This game is crap and you shouldn't waste one dollar on it. Avoid this and the other two MK adventure titles as well.This controler stinks.  The joystick is messed up and turned at a slight angle (so you have to go slightly up and right to go straight up), the rubber grips fall off in the first week, and worst of all, it's confusing.  I tried programing the buttons (because it's "fully programable") and believe it or not it works!  sure you can't train whole sets of commands (like moves in fighting games) in, only replot the buttons but it works.  The only problem comes in when you accidently press the clear button with a light in it and all of the sudden, none of the buttons perform the X action.  Then, this controller will probably be unplugged and sent to the attic just like mine.  Enjoy!:(I used to love playing Quake 2. I played it for hours on end. When I heard about it's impending release in 1997, I was stoked and could hardly wait for it to come out. And what did I do when it did? I played it AT LEAST 3 to 4 days a week from 1997 to early 2002. And guess what? I became freakin sick of it! I do not want to play this game ever again for the rest of my existence on this earth!! (Well, at least for 10 years or so) My point is, after you log hours and hours of gameplay, it starts to get old. FAST. Quake 2 may be a legendary game but I warn you don't overindulge. Play Max Payne, Deus Ex or Unreal Tournament 2003 instead.Where to begin with this train wreck of a game.  Twisted Metal 3 is like an abomination that should have never been made.  989 ruined the whole spirit and everything that made Twisted Metal 2 one of the best games ever made.  The only thing I would give this sequel over the previous game was that the cars graphically look a little better.  The game is so frustrating from the controls that it makes it no fun to play.  Everything got worse instead of better.

Story and Characters
They brought back the taxi from the first game, added a grandma and a Flower Power 60's car.  Yeah not a lot else needs to be said all 3 suck.  They got rid of some of the fun characters from the 2nd game like Shadow and Mr. Slam for those 3 and changed some of the names probably a copyright issue between the companies.  Not a big deal but still why not just keep the names the same.  The story is pretty much the same but uses 3D graphics instead of the animation theme.  I personally thought the animation from 2 was great and added a lot of fun to the game.  I loved beating TM2 with each character to see the multiple endings.  This game is so frustrating you will get none of that same enjoyment from this game.

Play Control
Is ridiculous in this game it is way over responsive to the point where it is hard to even drive the vehicles.  Just driving over power ups seems like a chore to pickup when they should be easy.  The wonderful freeze element in TM2 does not work near as well in this game.  The play control in TM2 was outstanding, every vehicle was easy to learn and play.  Not so in this monstrosity.

Stages & Backgrounds
The stages and backgrounds seem cramped and you don't get the feel of exploration you did in the previous game.  The cars all stay pretty close to you, so you don't do much searching for opponents on the other end of stages.  Gone are the fun elements of Antarctica falling to pieces or environmental dangers such as Moscow or the ruins of Latin America surrounded by lava.  Instead you get Egypt, The North Pole, Washington DC, London and Tokyo.  None of which is very exciting. I found the background boring and uninspiring.

Challenge
This game is cheap as hell, but not in the way you would think.  Instead of all the cars fighting each other, it seems like all the opponents just gang up on you alone so the odds are always 4 to 1 or 5 to 1 instead of even.  When you get a few opponents life bars way down they run off looking for your health powerups, that's right they wimp out stop engaging and run for health before they start attacking you again.  When I first saw this in the game I thought you have to be kidding me.  What programmer would add that in.  It really ruins the gaming experience and is frustrating.  When I died in TM2 I was eager to start the stage over and get revenge on the car that destroyed me but that does not really happen in this game because it takes so much longer just to destroy an enemy car because they are running after health the whole time.  The bosses are pretty much the same I thought the final boss was not unoriginal. The radar in this game is not nearly as good as with the previous game making it hard to track your prey and see where they are at on the grid.

Verdict
Avoid this game like the plague.  The cars and graphics may look better but you will have a better time beating your head against a wall that playing this game.  the endings and stories are not as good, the play control is awful.  The challenge is way to high because of cheap tactics. The radar is not really helpful.  All in All it is the worst game in the series.  I hated this game save your money or just buy the Twisted Metal 1 or 2.

Gameplay: 3/10
Play Control: 1/10 (over responsive to the point of frustration)
Story\Originality: 2/10
Challenge: 10/10
Fun Factor\Replay Value: 1/10Absolutely the worst game in the excellent Quakes. This certainly bombed the whole trilogy with its gameplay. What I hate about this game is the nonstop mindless shooting where you don't have to think. Getting killed in this game also causes alot of anger because everyone just jumps around you and constantly fires! This game is just like UT, bad. Utterly bad! I have constantly tried to like it, but failed at every attempt. Avoid at all costs!I really like the game but the person I bought it from doesn't test the games and now I have a game that I can't even start because the first disc doesn't read, please do not buy from this person because I paid good money for a paper weight!If you want yet another dogfight game, here it is.  If you want a game where you feel as though you are commanding a starship, as depicted in the Star Trek movies, you had better pass.  Cut scenes?  Wow, impressive, and  with David Warner no less!  Graphics? NONE BETTER!  Neat way to blow stuff  up?  Oh, yea!  A great game for those under 30 with cat like reflexes.  No  cunning needed here.  However, you had better be more practised in an  immelman turn than the corbomite bluff if you want to suceed at this game,  and that precisly is the opposite of what is advertised.Although a lot of people liked this game I hated it. For one thing this game was WAAAAYYYYYY too easy (I beat this game in three days playing only  1 hour a day! The first game had me playing for mounths! )! You're supposed  to find this fairy to give you all your powers back, and yet you start the  game with all your powers! Plus I don't care how good the graphics are,  Rayman does NOT look good in 3D and does not belong in 3D! So get the first  game, I don't recomend this game to ANYONE!  And you know what's worse?  This Nintendo 64 vertion looks WORSE and plays WORSE than the Dreamcast  vertion!  Now that's sad (Even though I never liked N64).Good gravy.  What was Squaresoft thinking when they made this one?!  It's terrible in almost every aspect.

First of all, the battle system involves having to siphon off magic spells from the enemies and grafting them into your abilities.  This means that if you use them, your skills actually decrease.  Not only that, but because the maximum level your characters can reach is 100 instead of 99, you're actually susceptible to the nervewracking "Level 5 Death" spell.

Secondly, the cast is shallow and characterless.  The main character is grumpy and unsociable, and this reviewer could not relate to him as a player should be able to.  Also, none of the other cast are very memorable, like the characters of the other Final Fantasy games.

Lastly, the story is about as intriguing and deep as a pile of... well, you get the idea.  The story begins all right, but then lapses into a nauseating, mismatched soap opera between the main character and his rival's ex.  Not only that, but the main character's attitude prevents the gamer from learning what the "villain" is really after; they never give you a deep enough look at her.

So, really, if you're a Final Fantasy fan, skip this one.  You didn't miss anything.The way the light/magnifier is mounted on the gameboy places the lens too far away and thus you have to be looking straight at the gameboy, it can't be tilted left or right. Also the lights do brighten the screen but again, unless your looking straight on the lights will leave "hot spots" on your screen. "Hot spots" is when light reflects off the screen and makes it difficult to see. This product eats batteries and makes gaming harder. Not a good purchase.I hadn't played an FF game for a long time, so I picked up FFX, hoping that all the good pub this game got would be true.  Alas, it was not.  FFX was a wretched game, no doubt.  Disgusted after spending 40 hours, I went back into the series, having heard that the earlier games were better.  My best buy had FFVIII on sale for like $15, so I bought it, figuring it couldn't be worse than X.  I was wrong.  Where to begin?  I'll start with the music, which is really repetitive.  It's really not even that good.  Next, the storyline, which is SO bizzare.  So Edea is the enemy.  No, she's being possessed by some other person.  Who you've never heard mentioned.  Not once, until the 3rd disc.  WTF?  The draw/junction system is horrendous as well.  Why can't I use the MP system?  But my biggest complaint with this game is the GFs.  At least by FFX they were smart enough to have the option to eliminate the intro scene.  NO such option here.  And I looked HARD.  Each one requires a year and a day to summon, so you just sit and watch Leviathan materialize, create a slide, and drop water down it.  How impressive.  If each character is summoning a GF, you could get up, drive 3 hours away to pick up some shoes on the side of the road, come back home, make dinner, eat, go to the bathroom, and sit back down and Pandemona would still be firing its attack.  And you can't avoid this, because your characters are so weak physically, that you must use them at least twice a battle.  In the event you find enough items to improve your weapon, this amount decreases, but you still use nothing but GFs during boss fights.  You don't even use real magic!  Why?  because using magic takes away defense points from your junction system!  You may use heal and status magics, but blacks are out of the question.  Besides, they're weaker than the GFs!  Even when triple cast, a triple cast blizzaga is weaker than Shiva!  Who thought of this?  I'm about 1/3 way through the 3rd disc, and I really don't even want to finish it.  When I found out the same people who designed this game designed X, it came to me as no surprise.  So many bad things about this game were evident in X, it was eerie.  Shame on square for allowing the makers of this game to make X.Before buying this game, I strongly recommend downloading the demo off their website first.  As a fan of many of the "God Games" out there, I found this one very unintuitive.  In short, all of the people are  stupid and the game itself does some very dumb things.
For instance,  there are points in the demo where the farmworkers just sit there and drown  as the Nile River rises.  The question isn't "what's causing this  person to just sit there"... the question is "why is this even  occurring?"
That's just one example, there are many, many, more.  Another example?  Ok, I got to a point in the game where half of the  population would just leave.  Then, six months later, they'd all return  again just to repeat the same process again and again year after year.  Does this make any sense?
I found all the micromanagement to be very  tiring.  The object of the game isn't to build an empire, it's to figure  out all the stupid little workarounds it takes to make these people do what  they should be doing without any thought.
This is just the demo, folks!  I strongly suggest you see for yourself before you drop your cash on the  real deal.
DerekThe Game is sow Boring the story is not good at all final 7 is so much beter get that ...It sure does. Old, boring, hard to play and hard to control. This game is more fun than a sharp stick to the eye but not by much. And the price when it first came out! Sheesh! I'm betting that the only reason some people buy this is Lara's chest and that doesn't justify purchasing this accident of a game.Good gravy... This is the absolute worst game that I have ever played in my entire life. Not that the game was even that bad, but... It never lived up to its own hype. I have played all of the Final Fantasy games... Since I beat the very first game, I have been a loyal follower and a ruthless critic. I cherished IV, and I absolutely LOVE VI, which is indeed the very best one in the entire series in terms of story and music. And Final Fantasy VII blew my mind... The Final Fantasy... In a whole different perspective, with three dimensions on the battlefield. When FFVIII came out, I already had a copy reserved... I held the glowing package in my hands, looked at the back of the cover and drooled over the beautiful graphics, and in my head I could imagine the enchanting score that my ears would soon be treated to. But as my best friend and I put the disk in and beheld Final Fantasy VIII... There was a voice screaming in my head... My mind kept saying something to me over and over again as I walked through Balamb Garden... And then my friend said that very thought: "Jay, this game sucks." Yes, it does. This game is a disgrace to the series. A storyline that is so slow, so pointless that you actually look forward to the battle sequences? There was no Final Fantasy VIII Theme! The battle theme and the boss theme pale in comparison to the vicious relentless music of the FFVII Score. There was not one piece of music that ever persuaded me to continue the journey. The disgustingly weak plot was made tolerable only by the CG movies. The character development was never there. Never did we ever find out why Seifer was such a jerk. ...Or WHY the GFs (Ha, ha) erased the memories of the characters. The lead character, Squall, answered every single question with the word "whatever." Compare that to the strong-willed, heartbroken Cloud from FFVII, and it becomes obvious. Allow me to say one more thing: Final Fantasy VI gripped me. I captivated me with a spell that bound me. I played, played, and played that silly game, with it's cute 16 bit graphics, as if I were possessed. The same goes for VII. I wanted to know what was going to happen next at that moment. I got as far as the mission to Timber in FFVIII, and never gave it a second glance. Only a year later, after exams were done in college, with no car or friends around... Did I pull Final Fantasy VIII out again to give it a second chance. How sad. The only time I ever cried over a video game was when Aeris died in Cloud's arms... But when I first played Final Fantasy VIII, I know that I wanted to just bawl.Could have been a lot better. to put it simply, to perhaps the biggest final fantasy fan ever,me, i was totally diappointed by this game. i hate the whole modern/futuristic look that this game has. even ff7 had this to a point. i want this to be like fantasy..castles, swords, mages, kings, knights, wizards. i hate that there is no armor or accessories, plus i hate that there are no magic points, and magic is not earned. the experience points thing stinks. leveling up/money mean nothin in this game.  my favorite part of RPG is building up wrecking machine armies.  ergo my sabin, celes, edgar, and terra army from ff3/6.  in this game the enemies level up with you so theres no point in leveling yourself up.  this game is soooo dumbed down.  the villain or lack thereof is horrible.  BRING BACK KEFKA!  the gf's take like 20 years to finish making battles so annoying, instead of fun like in ff6 and chrono cross.  the storyline is terrible and the characters are too real looking.  plus every character is essentially the same, each character does not have unique abilities except for the limit breaks. maybe if square had released this game under a different title not final fantasy 8 i woulnt have been disappointed. this remains the only ff game ever that i haven't finished, i stopped playing on disc 3. if u want a good RPG to play, get FF9 which goes back to hardcore fantasy and the original ways that made final fantasy so great. also i recommend ff3/6 which is undoubtable the best FF game ever, and arguably the best game ever. i also recommened chrono trigger and chrono cross which are totally awesome games.  don't waste your time or money with final fantasy 8.What a poor excuse for a Final Fantasy game, this game should have never came to america. Sure, the graphics are great but the characters make me sick and the plot seems like it came right from a Baby Sitter's Club Book. The main character Squall is suffereing from teenaged agnst, please. Oh, and the magic system (the draw and juctioning system- great idea... ahahahahahahaha. If you want a GOOD Final Fantasy get 7, 9,and 2, or 3 ( 4 and 6 for those people who think that they know Japanese.) Just stay as far away from this game as you possibly can!!!!ok, I admit if I known how bad this game was I still would have bought the game, but I wish I would had waited until the game went down to $19.99 before I wasted almost $50.00 for it. I hope Square makes FF9 better before they waste millions of dollars on another crap  shoot.
Now for my reasons for the 1 star.
1. It was a rip off of FF7. if you want to get FF8  but haven't played FF7 get FF7.
2. Why no voice acting!  I sooooooo recomend it!  C'mon Square at least on the CG movies(pease let FF9 have voice acting)!
3. The characters in the game not just the playable  ones but all of them seem to have no life to them, its just boring how the characters are so dull, I just cant  explain it.
4. Rushed, rushed, rushed, and, rushed. C'mon  Square where is this quality gaming I remember from your other stuff like Chrono Trigger and old classics like that.
5. I don't have anough time to tell you the rest but there  is alot of other stuff.wow. i bought this game hoping that blizzard had stopped going half way on their games( which is clearly evident in games like, starcraft, warcraft, diablo)well i bought this game, and it was stupid. this is what i affectionately call a "clicker" game. you know, i left click on you,i hit you, i right clic on you, i do a magic thing. boring. they try to make it interesting with the whole unique character thing, but the fact that it'll always be the same thing, every time you play it, doesn't really give you much re-play value. also a killer is the mandatory quests,you must complete every quest in order to move on in the already dull plot. if you really want a real RPG, buy Baldur's Gate, it's cheaper, and you get to completely make your character, and there's a totally non-linear plot. do waht you want, or don't, but be prepared to suffer the consequences. Baldur's Gate puts YOU the gamer in control, while diablo 2, you are just kinda along for the ride. diablo 2 is deffinitely a game for those simple-minded gamers, who don't really like the whole variable plot thing,the ones that don't like having a choice where to go or what to do when they want to, the ones who just want to click their way to victory. this game gets one star, which is many , many more than it deservesIf you like clicking banners and advertisements off your screen you will love this game, cause thats all it is, clicking annoying flying/popping graphics off your screen.It IS point and click!  Yeah, the greatest RPG of all time!  It certainly makes you gain weight faster than any other RPG.  All my friends have been fattened and dumbed by this marvel in brainwashing.  They are all now one with the chair that they sit in.  Greatest RPG?  Not even close.  Those who say it is are probably physically dependant upon it by now.  I observe people play with their eyes two inches from the monitor and their mouths slack with saliva dripping from the corners of their mouths.  The only thing that moves is the hand, making quick, convulsive movements.  I say that even if it does expand your brain (Ha, ha), the other negative effects far outweigh the good.Point, click, point, click, point, click.  Need I say more?  Incase you missed that it was point, click, repeat.  THIS GAME SUCKS!  I doubt the expansion will be any better.  I guess if you are twelve and you get your rocks off by having super items and being able to kill anyone in the game then it's sorta fun, but where's the challenge?  It took me ten minutes to master this game!  I cannot say enough bad things about this waste of money.This game is Civ II meets D&D. Its horrible. One of my five LEAST favorite games.It's unfortunate that you have to buy these cards second hand now. Sony will do anything to make you buy newer versions of their PS-3.that have had constant complaints from customers. There are a lot of Very Good PS 1 GAMES OUT THERE,AND YOU CAN'T PLAY THEM WITHOUT THE MEMORY CARD.wEITE TO sony AND COMPLAIN.My best advise is to never buy a memory card online! I couldn't save at all with out it needing to be reformatted each time. I suggest not to buy memory cards online.Now let me tell you straight that Rayman is one of the best games I have  ever played!  With wonderous worlds, challenging levels, and memorable  charicters make it a game to be hold!  That where Rayman 2 comes in.  Gone  are all the great stuff I mentioned above, clearly a fatele mistake on Ubi  Soft's part.  We have none of the returning cast (Except for Rayman of  course), choppy 3D graphics (A lot of the graphics look like they were  painted on the game), and very little challenge makes this a tradgity!  I've had this game for little over three days and have unlocked all the  secrets AND beat the game!!!  The first had me playing for months.  And  when I was finished with it I shed a tear of joy and said: "Now THAT  was a game!"  I'm still wondering how this can be called a sequal,  it's terrible!  I'm truly offended by this game!  All those who praise this  game have probibly never played the first game!  I beg of all those who  read this reveiw, please play the first game first to see what Rayman truly  has to offer you!  This game is just a wasted game.  I hope Ubi Soft wises  up with Rayman 3 or I'll just have to shelf the game as "A game that  got killed, when turned to 3D."  Boo, hoo!!!As a Myst fan I looked forward to this game and was sure that since it was so difficult to find in my local store that it must have been great. Boy, was I wrong. I played through and found that the puzzles were pretty difficult simply because were totally unrelated to each other and the rest of the game in general. Running a PII 600 MHz machine the game gave me no problems and the graphics ran fine. I am not an extremely picky gamer and with a bit of a plot this game could have been tolerable. ... .Totally hate this game.  Maybe it's because I'm over 30 and have very little patience for action platformer video games these days?  I don't know, but this game is exceptionally frustrating, to say the very least.  And I grew up on the old Nintendo, Super Mario platforming days.  This game is nothing like that.  It's extremely difficult, to the point where it does nothing to help my temper issues.  If you want to seriously throw your controller down the block, then get this game.  Otherwise, please do yourselves a favor and pass it up.  You don't need the aggravation in your life.THE X BUTTON DID NOT WORK .AHHHHHHHHHH3UFH4POUFP4UP3U4HGP34JNPITHBGIOBTG3[PIJ3PUBJBVNJNV

Pita Inversiones II
I believe i received the controller  that you returnedThanks to Nintendo's bright idea to make a system and double the graphics from the 32-bit Sega Saturn and Playstation systems, we get stuck with one of the worst sytems out there.  True Sega Saturn had lousy 3D graphics and  bad third-party support, no one can deniy the fact it had some great games  on it.  And I hate Playstation, but because they shaped their graphics just  right the games somehow came out looking better than N64.  Not only do we  get a really cheesy system, they also had to turn many classic 2D games and  turn them into horrible 3D games (Like Earthworm Jim 3D, Zelda, Donkey Kong  64, Kirby, Rayman 2, and so much more...)!  Plus the controll drove me  bonkers the way they controll it.  Sometimes the controll's bother me so  much I have to stop playing the game.  Plus because the games are in  cartriges (Lousy sound and space because of this) they cost [a lot]  and the games are usally short and don't last more than a couple of hours  before you're finished with the game.  And this is from someone who has  loved all their other systems they made.  Which is why I was crying after I  played this thing (I still think once was too painfull) at a friends house.  Complete waste of money.  I do not recomend.  Let's hope the Nintendo Cube  Box turns out better than this piece of trash.This is argubaly the worst system EVER. The music is horrible sounding comparing to the beauty of the playstation. There are no good RPG games for  this system. The graphics in most games are nowhere near they could be and  overall a pathetic system. The best game it had was Goldeneye 007 and in my  mind that is the ONLY good game besides Perfect Dark to appear on the  entire system during its 4 years on the American Market.This is not a game. It is manure masquerading as a game. Smelly manure.  I'm all for a "sense of wonder" but when that "sense of wonder" is bogged down by an insurmountable wall of bugs (bad bugs), an extremely clunky physics engine, non-existent gameplay, and a bunch of other gaffes who needs it?  This is an excellent box-stacking simulation but is nothing elseTrust me, Do not buy this game.  I am the local TM lover and know-all.  I bought TM4, TM2, and TM3 (sadly I can't find a copy of TM1)  After i bought TM2, I was looking forward to cool characters, cool battlegrounds, and semi-pixated graphics.  I found none of these things.  There are only 4 new characters, Club Kid, Auger, Flamethrower, and my favorite new driver, Flower Power.  The levels, especially Washington DC, is a small open level, which is no fun.  The North Pole is annoying, and I hate the boring London level.  The graphics are cheesy, and 989 studios tried to make them look too real.  The cars flip over with every tight turn you make, when another car hits you, or you drive onto a hill.  This game is not realistic.  This game should have 0 stars and is a disgrace to the TM title.  I warn you, do not even look at this game.  It is the worst.  The car combat genre is in shame.Twisted Metal 3 is overrated - because it's not normally considered the worst Playstation game.  I can't believe how unfun this game is.  The  control is laughable.  The gameplay is incredibly boring.  The music is Rob  Zombie, which is bad enough before you hear it 5,000 times in a row.  The  game also adds almost nothing new.  Don't even rent this one.As I'm unable to "fully" review this game, let me just say, the game is not compatible with WIN XP.  If you are lucky (or foolish) enough to still be running Win 98, then you may be able to get the game to load.game is crappy and unfair enemys cheat and respawn making it impossible to compleate missions you either defend your man all the time or diehorrible system... Graphics suck. Get an xbone... COD is way better than these crap games. Xbone and ps4 are a go DONOT BUYYYYPlease hear me out. Let me try to explain why I gave this system such a low rating.

Had this console not been remembered as being fantastic and interesting, I would be giving it 3 stars. But, unfortunately, there really isn't anything very interesting about this console. The graphics aren't very good compared to the PSX or even some of the better stuff on the Saturn, like Panzer Dragoon Saga or Virtua Fighter 2, the Shenmue Saturn demo, Sega Rally, and Daytona Championship Circuit Edition, to name a few. Lots of games I've played have very low resolution textures, often sprawled out. The games themselves just aren't very interesting or fun to play, even in multiplayer.

I'm also not a huge fan of the controller. While it has an odd design, it is fairly comfortable, and the joystick is very precise.

Finally, there's the value. The games themselves are not at all worth the high prices they demand. Super Smash Brothers simply isn't as fun as Powerstone or Bushido Blade. Mario Kart 64 isn't as much fan as Ridge Racer Type 4 or Crash Team Racing. Mario Golf is nowhere near as good as Neo Turf Masters. Hell, even Mario isn't as fun as the Crash Bandicoot games. And just about all of the games listed (with the exception of Powerstone 1 or 2) are all marginally cheaper than their N64 competitors.

For the final verdict, this is a system I would recommend avoiding. The prices are far too high for their own good, and the games aren't good enough to justify the prices. If it hadn't been for the huge disappointment all the games I had brought me, this would have a higher rating.

Take off the rose tinted glasses people.I own this game.  I have gotten a 5 star rating once but it is dumb because if you run out of money and go into debt you can't get your money back or build anything.  The people get impatient and stressed out and then they start taking your money away.  I would recommend that you buy Spider Man or the Spider Man Movie Game instead of this annoying game that never ends.It is really a shame that this game was never updated for windows XP. You can run most of the features, but the practice shooting range no longer works and this is an important feature. You need to practice to do well in solving the puzzles. I wrote to them a while back but they showed no interest in providing a fix. I guess they made their money and don't care.This seller named woodhec sent me a DEFECTIVE N64 Console and I was very disappointed for Christmas! Don't ever buy from this seller unless you want to get robbed of your money. This deserves a FLAT 0!this game is the hardest game ive ever played, and that takes away the fun. also graphics very poor even for nintendo 64 cannot even recommend for people i dislike don't waste your time or money worst n64 game everI'm giving 1 star because this is one of the cheapest packages I have ever bought, it looks like a pirated copy! No, wait, a pirated copy would look better!!
All the disks came in a single case, onve over the other (which caused scratches in almost all of them),
Oh and all the cool covers on the disks? horrible black and white labels!
I regret buying this!this is the stuppidiest game i've ever played. I advise everyone not to play it or buy it. It really sucked.Doesn't work, I was told it was in working order and just needed cables now I am being told I need to purcdhase more for it to make it actually work, which I don't believe I had 1 of these systems for 15 yrs and had no problems.NES is the best ever, SNES was great but N64 for me had no games that were nearly as memorible.  I enjoyed Doom 64, WCW/NWO games, MK Trilogy, Goldeneye, Banjo Kazooie and thats about it but again nothing really memorible.  The grapics were new at the time but look like total garbage now and I have no desire to play the N64 but I still play NES to this day.I like adventure games, but I like them to follow some sort of logical  puzzle solving, so dyou can kind of get inside the mind of the creators,  figure out how they think and figure the game out that way. These puzzles  are completely illogical, obviously designed to be frustrating, and keep  you trying different senseless things to proceed in the game.  Also,  although the 2D backgrounds were interesting at times, calling this a 3d  game is quite a stretch by any definition. Even the 3d cut-scenes were  crappy, and the graphics during regular gameplay were just terrible.  Supposedly the game made "game of the year" in Europe, they must  be pretty hard up over there, now I know not to take that as a  commendation.This game is very fun to play, but be warned off by this review from me!  It has the highly severe computer worm in its installation cds that Symantec's Norton web site refers to as: "IRC W32 Tibick Activity".  Also the XP update for it also has a computer worm in it!
To check out the details off what it does to infected computer systems go to: [...]
That page at Norton doesn't specifically refer to "Final Fantasy VII", but for those that want to know for sure that what I'm stating is correct you can use the shorter web site address at Norton by using the web address of: [...]
In the web page that pops up into view; enter: "Final Fantasy VII"  into the search box on that page and hit the enter key on your keyboard.  A page with three options will comeup.  The top one is about the worm in the FF VII installation cds.  The next one is about the XP 1.5 version upgrade, and that has an additional worm in it.  The final option refers to a worm that infects FF XI & FF XII.  That worm is even more dangerous than even the one on the FF VII installation cds.  Thast one will automatically go to the computer's  email section and send ZIP versions of itself to every contact listed there.  Also all three worms will every time the computer is turned on check for a specific website to get upgraded versions of itself.
My advise though Norton doesn't state it; is to destroy every copy of the PC version of "Final Fantasy VII" that you have to prevent infecting the computers in the world.
In the file about "IRC W32 Tibick Activity" the Norton people mention how to completely remove the computer worm from infected computer systems.  That process can take a while though as that worm infects several other programs on the computer as well.  Norton lists all the programs that it infects as well.
I myself have two copies of FF VII and even a copy of the cds I made as well.  I'm going to destroy those cds as well to follow my own advise.  Those people sure did a very mean stunt to the makers of Final Fantasy VII in ruining possibly the best rpg game they ever made!!!  Personally I think those people at the least should be sent to a federal prision<sp> for the rest of their lives!!! grrr!!!I bought this game at a fairly low price, and when I started playing, I was totally amazed - at the incredibly bad graphics.

 The game featured a basic HUD with two annoyingly large bars, placed above and below it. That was the first thing I noticed. Next I saw that the terrain was sort of fuzzy, and my gun wasn't all that impressive either.

 "OK...," I said to myself. "Why don't I try walking around and see if this gets any better?" So I did. Guess what? No gun sway! Every stinkin FPS game I've every seen had some sort of movement with the gun (Ok, maybe not Wolfenstein 3d, but still!).

 So, anyway, I tried firing the gun - barely any recoil at all. I tried a pistol just to see if the hammer would pull back but it did not.

 Anywayz terrible graphics = boring game. Enough saidGet it through your head THIS GAME stinks First of all the graphics suck,boring gameplay(I usually like realistic military games), coudn't acess campaign, takes forever to install. I would give this game 0 stars. I just bought it about 1 hour ago played it for 15 min. and then got bored... Try the Unreal series , half life or rainbow 6As with the Final Fantasy Origins disc for sale through Amazon, this is a bootleg disc. It contains silver backed discs versus trademark original black PlayStation discs. I should have known better for the price and condition. These are considered some of the greatest Final Fantasy titles for crying out loud!

Everything still works. The case is complete with (bootlegged) manual, and the games play fine in my OG PSX console, but I didn't want no dirty, illegal software when I paid for this so it gets one star.  Do yourself a favor and get a good used copy, but be careful, these pirated copies have proliferated Amazon's used store and eBay.

Look for the Squaresoft logo and black discs!!

Amazon, you need to pull these from your storefront!!!!Okay, here it is in a nutshell.  The graphics bite, and bite HARD.  The spell component system is so difficult that playing hack and slash by default is much more preferable.  And there is little if any help by the  GMs.  My two cents.  Buy at your own risk.This game should have NEVER been released in its current state. Its load times are unacceptable. Both games feel like chores playing because of how long everything takes due to very poor emulation. Squaresoft wanted to make as much money as they could with the game without having to spend any money to hire someone who could make the game work properly with the PS1. This is an extremely bad port of FF5 and FF6. FF5 freezes very often when you try to save. Also its load times are long. Not to mention this is the original translation of the game, so be prepared to have a certain character talk like a drunken brain damaged pirate the entire game. FF5 just butchers the English language. FF6 is the same as it was on SNES except for extremely long load times. It becomes a chore trying to open the menu to heal your character or whatever. The long load times really take away from the games and just makes the whole thing a bad experience. Stick to the SNES or get these games on gameboy advance. Also FF5 is exactly the same on PSN as it was in anthology. LONG LONG load times as well as being incompatible with your PS3 half the time. Shame on you square soft, shame.Not even owning a Game Shark can make this game fun. Without it, you have to drop an elbow on your opponent 967 times to get the pin. With a Game Shark, a mere 960 times. All jokes aside, gameplay is extremely slow and irritating. In the time it takes to execute one complicated move, I could have made a hero sandwich, grabbed another drink, and went to the mens room. Controller response is so slow, it feels as if someone spilled a soda on your controller last week. I like what one reviewer said about the punches taking 3 hours to deliver. I couldn't stop laughing when I read that. By the way, I sold my WCW Mayhem game at my last yard sale, for $2. And that, people, IS TRUE.Believe me, I would give this game zero stars if Amazon.com allowed me.
I received this for Christmas as a gift and let me tell you.  This is possibly the worst piece of garbage put on the market.  I mean, the questions run out fast leaving the game to replay old questions which are easy once you get to know them which means the replay value isn't very high.  If you want a fun game try the Sims or Delta Force: Landwarrior.  Your time would be better spent with those games .Would have a good review if the developers spent more than five minutes slapping this together.  By the second or third time through the questions were already repeating themselves - awful!  Plus multiplayer is just a "fastest-finger" question to determine who plays solo.  Big deal!
The worst part is the game only runs about two or three times before it crashes on startup.  This is on an Intel PC with name-brand components, no cheap swap-meet stuff.  The only solution has been to uninstall and reinstall the game.  A visit to the Disney Interactive site for tech support... umm where is it?  Because of this I can't recommend anyone purchase this game.
They've come out with a second edition of this game (wow, so quick?)  Perhaps this version works?Man, I never knew Phil Regis could be this ANNOYING!  Since some of the first few questions are ludicrously hard (which is totally unlike the show), and it gives you 30 seconds to answer the question (which is ALSO  totally unlike the show), I have to restart the game A LOT, which means I  hear Phil Regis A LOT.  A "skip" button should've been put into  the game!  I haven't recieved any repeat questions after about 3 months of  owning the game.  How?  I uninstalled it after 30 minutes and never played  it again!  Trust me, you'd get more fun out of an electronic whoopee  cushion than this game...and it's $5 cheaper!This is the most meager cash-in attempt I've ever seen. There may well be hundreds of questions, but it'll take you a thousand games to see them all. I was receiving a couple or three repeat questions by the fifth game, and a  majority of repeats by game 10. There seems to be little or no gradual  increase in difficulty, which was proven when I saw a $500 question later  repeated as a $125,000 question later in the game.
An example of the  game's inadequacy runs thusly: I am cruising through the game easily until  the $32,000. Fine, by now I'm expecting them to be tough. I use the 50-50,  then the call a friend, who says she is 75% certain the answer is (A). Just  to be sure, I use the audience poll as well. Guess what, 92% say that (A)  is their choice. Well, now I'm convinced and go with (A) as well. I'm  WRONG, it's (B). That is just stupid beyond measure. If they wanted to  throw me off, make the audience rating more like 60-40% or  something.
Nice graphics, nice sounds, atrocious game mechanics. Wait for  the improved version, or play it on the net.I have to admit that I never was a victim of the "Tomb Raider Hype Machine". I liked the idea of a 3rd person perspective game where your character can do alot of tricks but the whole idea of the big-boobed Lara Croft just turned me off.  I bought this for 4 bucks at the used software house and played it for about 2 hours. I liked the save game feature somewhat, it should be more specific. I felt like banging my head against a wall after be killed for the 50th time because I didn't hit the "jump" button in the right sequence with the "run" button at the correct prescribed time.  The interface is just too rigid for a game like this, it reminded me alot of that old "Dragon's Lair" game. And I got real tired of the stupid puzzles.  I think the real reason for TR being so popular is that its the first non-adult game with a overly-endowed female protagonist. It can't be because of the gameplay.I could not play it as it did not want to be downloaded on either a 98 windows or an ME windows so beware as you could be out of pocket money and not be able to use it.  the saving grace I didn't pay much for it.Wow, I expected something decent when I bought this at my local Half-Price Books store, (I was on a Mortal Kombat Craze, hell I even bought MK:Annihilation at the same place on dvd) BUT THIS IS GOD AWFUL!!!

The Presentation is terrible! You only have a Choice of 6 characters. Scorpion, Kano, Liu Kang, Raiden, Sub-Zero, Sonya. No Johnny Cage. The Game itself is just a 10 fighter tournament. About 6 fights of the same thing. then last 3 is Endurance rounds (aka tag team fighters) Then Goro fight where Goro just gropes you, then Shang Tsung fight. THE END.
Enter your name, turn off game, Rethink the past hour of your life, turn back on, name is not saved on leaderboard, OUT OF THIS HOUSE, OUT OF THIS HOUSE!

The Controls make me wish I was playing Shaq Fu! Im dead serious. Its incredibly sluggish! Every single button command has to be inputed slowly. To execute special moves, like scorpions's spear, heres how you input it:

Back, (1 sec pause), Back, (1 sec pause), B.  Don't try and speed-run this game.

The music is just an abomination, take a listen:
[...]
[...]

Overall, don't waste any money on this. If you decide to buy this, pick up some pepto-bismo on your way back to the grocery store. Or just get an SNES or Arcade emulator if you want to play the real MK1.The game boy port of Mortal Kombat was just awful! The music and graphics were decent,but the gameplay was super slow,there was absolutley NO blood OR sweat like in the SNES version,and the fatalities were just dumb. Another bad thing,for ME anyway,was there is no Johnny Cage in this version,who was one of my favorite characters from the first game. The only good MK game for game boy was MK II.Just pass this one up. It sucks.Eternal Champions is an awesome game....for Sega CD.This version of it for Genesis is total crap. First of all,the game is almost IMPOSSIBLE to beat. You'll have one hell of a time just getting past the first fight. What makes it even worse is there is no way to adjust the difficulty level on this game neither. Another bad thing about this stinker is when you lose a match,you gotta keep hitting reset over and over again if you wanna change your fighter. This game sucks. There IS some history behind this game though. This was the very first exclusive fighting game that went straight to Genesis,and that wasn't in the arcade first. But that little history lesson doesn't save this terrible game. Oh and did I mention that you need a six button controller to play this game too?...You can play it with a three button pad,if you like to keep hitting the start button over and over again to change your punches into kicks. My best advice to you is to stay as far away from this game as you can,and pick up the Sega CD version of it.This game is the worst fighting game ever. You have to press start to change from punch to kick, the players are original, but just damn dumb, and the game is hard. You will be lucky enough to even pass the first person. The graphics are ok, but it's horrendous mechanics destroys any hope for this game, and you can't even change your character if you loose, so that forces you to hit the reset button every time you want to change characters.This game seems like it was thrown together to keep as much speed as possible. Back in the early 90s Genesis was the blistering fast system. As per the SEGA gargon. Truth is it was slghtly faster then SNES but couldn't handle the colors. So now was know why they left over half the colors of the orginial. Now we are stock with this thing. They kept most of the moves and all the colors, but doesn't have any intro or ending animation which means it looks half done. Before you defend this game, think of this. Super Street Fighter looked great, but they they just didn't take the time porting this game. And much like Mortal Kombat it looks drab, choppy, and well peiced together.

 On the other hand if you are a collector and you want a PR port check out 32X. It is one of the best ports out there. This is one of the most ported games of all time, and the Genesis is one of the ones to try to see how much they took out and how bad it was.Looks and plays nothing like PC or arcade version and the moves are too complicated.  Get MK instead. Terrible.THIS IS THE VERSION OF MORTAL KOMBAT 3 THAT YOU SHOULD DEFINITELY AVOID. THIS GAME WAS HORRIBLE AND IT MAKES THE SUPER NINTENDO VERSION LOOK LIKE A GOOD GAME IN COMPARISON. THE GRAPHICS ARE AWFUL, THE MUSIC IS ANNOYING HERE, THE CONTROLS ARE BAD, AND UNLESS YOU HAVE A 6 BUTTON CONTROLLER FOR THE SEGA GENESIS, YOU CAN'T DO MUCH OF ANYTHING!!! THIS IS A MAJOR DISSAPOINTMENT TO THOSE THAT HAVE THIS GAME ON GENESIS. AVOID THIS VERSION AT ALL COSTS. THIS IS A COMPLETE WASTE OF TIME. THIS VERSION JUST RUINS THIS SOMEWHAT DECENT SEQUEL.This is just too bad. For such a cool character, Batman has had some bad luck with video games. This is probably the worst and that's saying a lot.  This game is no fun (did you see the one star?) and is not worth anyone's time.when i was a kid, i thought this was fun, but i played it lately, this is so boring and dullthe game's okay, although i don't think making the charactersin 3d was a very good idea, plus at some points game gets outrightboring,and all the main characters smoke...  although the game will crash sometimes, and it might get stuck, overall, the game is pretty much okay if you don't count crashes and how the characters act and look...  ENDAnother lousey boring basketball game. where do they come up with these games. this game was stupid.mischief makers?what does make you think of?teenagers who get bored and break stuff?firecrackers?practical jokes?pranks?how about............none of the above.how about some crap that looks like it belongs on the original atari?no mischief,just a very poorly animated and quite bright super mario bros rip off.save your money a buy a box a paper clips.youll have more fun.This is exactly what everybody has said already about this game. It's bad... REALLY BAD. The intro movie alone is enough to let you know what you're in for which is a whole lot of crap.

The game only features geometrical shapes and solid colors for graphics. Seriously, it really does look like if you tried to make a 3D world out of construction paper. The controls are waaaaaay off as in if you start running, it's near impossible to turn/stop/maneuver your character and jumping on enemies consists of landing *directly* under your shadow or you will get hit and die. Gliding is a smaller jump that makes you "float" a little.... it's completely USELESS unless you need to use it on those floor-fan-enemies to float up. And the sounds.... ugggghhhh... oh my... atrocious.

But here's the thing about this torture devise... it's entertaining to a certain degree. Now I may be crazy but I bought this just to say "I own one of the worst games in history" but I'm actually compelled to beat it to 100%. A challenge that may result in brain damage but I'm no quitter. If you plan on getting this for the "lolz", get some beer and call a couple of friends over. This is the videogame equivalent of an Asylum movie.My older brother and I enjoyed the Bubsy series for Sega Genesis and Super Nintendo growing up.  Now that those systems were no longer creating any new titles in favor of the Nintendo 64 and Playstation, it was time to move on to the 64 bit world.  When Bubsy 3D was launched in 1997, we were so excited to try it out, but little do we know that we were being  tricked.  It was a pixelated 3D mess.  My brother got it for his 15th birthday and it was probaly the worst gift he receieved in time.  After trying to figure out this crappy game by enduring the confusing camera rotations, boring music, crappy navigation, and Bubsy's annoying random comments (throughout the game); we just went back to playing the original Bubsy on Sega Genesis.  I may have been the worst friend in the world because I gave Bubsy 3D to my best friend in exchange for Marvel Super Heroes game for Playstation.  This game tarnished the reputation of the lovable, sarcastic Bobcat.  Just stay away from this piece of s*** and go back to your Super NES and Sega titles because they were untouched timeless classics and a whole lot more fun than this 3D garbage.Well, here it is guys: the WORST Mortal Kombat game of all-time.  Yup, the honor goes to the Game Boy version of Mortal Kombat II.

I bought this game when it first came out because I was stupidly riding on the success of the Mortal Kombat series at the time.  I was very naive (all my friends were right!)

Time hasn't been kind to this game, but who am I kidding?  Time wasn't kind to this game the day it came out because it was an absolute piece of plastic trash then, and it's trash now.  It will forever remain trash.  It's so trashy, the trashman won't even take it.  He says it stinks too much, and it's not worth the risk of potentially sniffing the horrible odor *just* to put the game in the back of his truck.  Even if he were to wear the thickest pair of gloves in the world, he doesn't want to risk the smell remaining on his skin permanently.

So why am I bashing the game so hard?  Because you get fewer fighters, fewer levels, HORRIBLE black and white graphics, and the worst part- an extremely slow framerate.  The blood doesn't even exist.  Okay there's blood, but watching it on a hard-to-see black and white screen, would you even call that blood?  No, you wouldn't (and shouldn't).

I would rather have a job being a janitor in an elementary school and having to clean up barf on the cafeteria floors every day, than play the Game Boy version of Mortal Kombat II ever again.  It's really that bad.  At least then, you can swirl the puke around with a mop and have some fun.

For the love of God and all his wonderful adorable Earthly creatures- DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!  Just when I thought the Mortal Kombat series couldn't get any crappier, it happened.I heard this game is crap. I have it for NES and its cool. But this is weird. Why would they make a stupid 'easy' game for GBA? Why won't they let you play as the cool people like Baraka? You stubborn retards can make a better choice of system and game then this!!!!!!!I bought this game way back when the N64 was in its heyday. I thought it wasn't very good and traded it in. Now I see somebody is trying to sell it for $89.95! If anybody is considering buying Quest 64 at this ridiculous price, I urge them to think twice. There are plenty of far, far better games for your money. I know there weren't that many RPGs for the N64 but that doesn't make this game a classic IMHO. You'd be better off looking for some of the excellent SNES RPGs like FF II and III or Legend of Zelda A Link to the Past.Wargods is a much better game made by the same people for the N64. This game is somewhat glitchy and straining. Save your money. Buy a better Mortal Kombat game for a newer system. Not worth having.blends 3 mortal kombats in one, not the first three games that i expected. game play was lame. Not for beginners very hard.It didn't not work i had to send it back

I've ordered another one I hope this one workswhat a joke, this game is worthless. I wouldn't have taken this game if it had been for free, let alone 4 dollars!This is not what you'd expect from Rare or from the Donkey Kong series. The game has a really basic plot: The bad croc is going to blow up Donkey  Kong's island. Everyone, including me, was expecting super graphics from  the expansion pack (which you need to play this game). Not true. The  graphics are a bit better then the average game, but not as good as they  could be. The game is remarkably similar to Banjo-Kazoie (another 1 star  game) in that you learn moves as you progress through the game, something I  HATE! The characters also speak in mumbles that get annoying. However,  probably the worst part is that the game play is boring and it is hardly  challenging. I beat the first level fully and almost beat the 2nd through  5th levels in the first week I had it and I haven't touched it since. The  only good part is the multi-player mode. So, if you're going to buy an N64  game, look elsewhere.the graphics is pretty good on this game, but the game play sucks. it's not worth your money.This game is so stupid, i don't understand why people like it. There is no real fun in it. For one thing you can't jump/ wich is dumb. and the attack moves are really duel. it sucks! do not buy this game.

If by any chance you liked this game then check out all of the other Bomberman games.Not as advertised. My wife was scammed the same way when she bought me 2 controllers as a gift. THEY ARE NOT NINTENDO CONTROLLERS. It doesn't match up to the yellow & green N64 official controllers I have. They have a grey connector not the blue as in the picture (meaning it's a knock-off). I am not bothered about buying knock-offs but do not assume this is a nintendo controller. Will work fine sometimes and not others.
Simply, not good enough.If I could give no stars I would. Controller shipped quickly but was not as it was described in the listing. Quality was rated as acceptable with a loose joystick. When we opened the box the controller had two cuts (with somewhat exposed wires) in the main cord, dirt in the joystick and memory card areas and other spots that could have easily been cleaned in less then 1 minute. When we plugged the controller in the loose joystick greatly effected game play. We sent the controller back within a few days.I borrowed this game from a friend. I played for half an hour then got bored. I'm glad I didn't pay money for it. It's pretty much just Banjo-Kazooie(which I also didn't like). I was upset, especially when I got to the first door requiring gold bananas. Why couldn't they have just put out another Banjo-Kazooie game and make an ORIGINAL Donkey Kong game for the N64.

Banjo-Kazooie was fun, until the difficulty spiked out of nowhere. Also, the idea of making a cartoonish adventure somewhat nonlinear is poorly executed in it.

I didn't play far enough to see if Donkey Kong corrected any of this, but it looks like it didn't. It just changed the setting from running around inside of a mountain to running around inside of islands. Great.

If you liked Banjo-Kazooie, I'm sure you'll love this. If not, definitely skip Donkey Kong.donkey kong is a stupid game the charaters are monkeys for the love of God monkeys.this game does not have a story line do not try this game.I wish they would make a Gamecube side-scrolling Donkey Kong effort like the SNES games, just make the graphics better, retain the music quality and make more levels and longer. They included some lovely old games like the original DONKEY KONG arcade game, and a spaceman game for computer. There are big worlds, but that seems just about it. There's a lot of collecting, but the problem-solving is no fun. This series became really removed from it's huge SNES appeal.I bought DK64 when it first came out in 1999, and from the moment I started to play it I did not like it at all. It is way too complicated and difficult to play, and I would not recommend this game. Every time I tried to play it I just kept getting frustrated, and I had to stop playing it. Instead I would recommend Banjo-Kazooie or Mario 64.Simply confusing and I don't see how any non-6 year old kid in the 90s could like this.I remember burrowing this from a friend because I ran out of N64 games to play so I burrowed this and some other games for a few days. I have to say it was fun at first, than it became frustrating, and than I felt like I was going to throw up because of the weird controls and this and that moving around in weird places which I didn't intended in doing. It was also because I was really young then and I really didn't know what the game was really about, which is puzzle solving sometimes.

I advise not buying the game, instead tell your friend to buy it because its the best game ever and take it from him when he wants to throw it out. Of course you'll lose a friend, but well worth it! Game > Friendship. I'm just playing kids.I was looking for ace combat.
not air combat. It popped up and I did not bother to read the few letter difference.
I also sent it back.I'm an avid gamer, but Anno 2070 is an INSULT to gaming.  It is so buggy and half-finished that the first campaign doesn't even work properly and the DRM is INCREDIBLY frustrating to deal with.

Once you manage to work your way past the massive amounts of bugs and get through the DRM, HOURS later you finally figure out that the game has no real tutorial, so you stuck just clicking around randomly.

Sad, sad, sad, example of a game that could have been great but FTW.Shaq Fu is a game that should never have been created. Horrible 2D fighter and miserable plot. Great for a gag gift for a classic gamer.There are evil forces in America that will try to sell you anything, and these evil forces understand the public's fascination with sports heroes and celebrities, and so take a sports hero and a video game and shouldn't that be a winning combination? Listen: this game is simply retarded. A basketball player does not a martial artist make. At first glance you might think this game is pretty cool; after all, the graphics are very well done and the animation is very fluid. But when you realize that you have a total of three moves--punch, kick, jump--and that you can defeat any evil kung fu master just by endlessly jump kicking across the screen and bouncing like a pogo stick, you realize this is not going to be a very deep fighting game. But, yeah, the graphics are pretty good so this game doesn't suck as bad as it possibly could. And then you remember that it's about a basketball hero who just happens to be a world-class martial artist, and that that martial artist is none other than Shaquille O'Neil. And you realize that you have too much free time on your hands, and that maybe you're playing this cart because you're really desperate to be entertained, and then you realize you were having more fun with Bimini Run, which you go back to. OK, to be fair, this game isn't nearly as bad as Bimini Run but it's still pretty ridiculous. Recommended only for those who enjoy a nice steaming pile of crap.The game looks fine, but it doesn't work. I bought 6 games from this seller, 5 of which did not work.This game is insainly hard
The first stage has snow monsters and a dark lil room
2nd or 3rd stage is a train. Where you must hop from cart to cart and reach the end
Then you got a boss who is very fast & strong
Sewer levels
Canyon levels
Racing level
Big & multible bosses
wow x.xLara Croft games have NEVER been any good.  I remember when the very first one came out 10 years ago.  Teens were practically DROOLING on their controller every time they saw Lara's pretty face.  Tomb Raider must have been advertised like it was the most groundbreaking video game to ever hit the freakin' market.  The thing is, the games are boring and Lara Croft isn't very pretty.

If polygon-breasted girls are your thing, go for it.  But they aren't MY thing, and I know I'm not the only one to think so.  Lara Croft isn't good-looking to the millions of internet gamers who understand that a blocky-looking computer babe isn't going to automatically make a game any fun to play.  I'll give Lara Croft SOME credit.  She was one of the originators of the "running around half-naked female shooter/adventure" type of video games.  In fact, you might even say she was a MAJOR influence because soon after her very first adventure, more and more game companies were making the main characters in their games half-naked chicks.  Lara brought something new to the world of video games and I will give her credit for that.

Sometimes influence doesn't matter when a game is really bad.  This is one of those cases.  The Tomb Raider series on the original Playstation is a joke.  I absolutely *groan* when I think about playing a Tomb Raider game because I remember how ugly and dark the environments are, the glitchy problems that dominate all three Tomb Raider games, the annoying and difficult jumping style of Lara Croft (which makes it nearly impossible to progress to the end of the game.  Good luck- she NEVER jumps where you want her to) and of course, mentioned above, Lara's supposed beautiful face (she's NOT pretty, remember?)

It also doesn't help that the puzzles you have to solve are ALWAYS really awful (and appear frequently) and, because of the jumping problem, very frustrating to complete.  Trying to aim your gun at an emeny isn't exactly a walk in the park, either.  The whole series has been an overrated disaster up to this point.

By the time Tomb Raider 3 was released people were REALLY getting fed up with the series.  Now, these same people will tell you this was because they kept releasing more and more Tomb Raider games, but I actually think people got sick of Tomb Raider because games like Resident Evil and Silent Hill came along with a similar style and improved on it *drastically*, making Tomb Raider look awfully dated by comparison.

At least the third Tomb Raider game has SOME decent-looking background levels.  I guess the company who created Lara Croft finally understood that Lara's pretty face ALONE isn't going to get the job done anymore.  I mean, at least in some places the backgrounds LOOK good .  Not exactly the prettiest environments available on the Playstation of course, and most of the time all you see is darkness or candlelight.  But what's THERE is okay to look at, at least.

Tomb Raider 3 features a challenge that is mostly only challenging because of the above-mentioned jumping problem.  She simply doesn't jump the way you want her to.  You'd THINK the game company would've dealt with this problem with all the new moves for Lara they added to the game, but no, none of these new moves make the game any easier.  The artifact-finding storyline had potential but unfortunately the frustrating challenge ruined it.

BOY am I glad I never bought any of these games (all these years I've been watching OTHER people play them).  Reading reviews for the more recent Tomb Raider games on the Playstation 2, I see NO improvements have been made.  Let the series END already.I remember renting for the weekend at our local video store ages ago. It took about an hour to figure out how to make the grappler hit the sweet spot so I could get to the second floor. That was only the first level! In case you're wondering, I had no problem getting past the first stage in other video games. So it wasn't my lack of experience, it was the abysmal game design. The music, or at least the music I heard (as I stopped playing after the first level) was mediocre. If you really want to play a Batman Game for SNES, I recommend "Batman Returns" and "The Adventures of Batman and Robin". Some "bad" games can still be fun but this one isn't.As the other reviews have stated, this is a very boring game. You are Batman or Robin set out to save Gotham from the Riddler and Twoface. An interesting thing to this game is that the buttons are set up like Mortal Kombat, high punch, low punch, up to jump and select to use your grappling hook. When you start each level you make a choice of two extra weapons like smoke bombs, gas guns and baterangs. There's not much to the game, you move straight through on a set side scrolling platform path beating up bad guys. The graphics are pretty amazing, being that the game is so much like Mortal Kombat, so are the graphics!So after the success of Batman Returns, there would be a movie adaption of Batman Forever.  The graphics looked interesting.  Almost a next gen feel for the SNES.  And it would be a brawler.  So how could it go wrong?  Well first off, it feels like they are trying to rip off Mortal Kombat.
But the worst sin is that the controls are horrendous.  They are so frustrating.  I remember spending most of my time mashing buttons just trying to get my grappling hook to work.  Still brings up bad memories all these years later!
The story is fine.  And it is a good challenge in game play.  But its never a good game where the main challenge is the broken controls.  Game better left lost to the sands of time.Another blast from my past.  No matter how far I got, I could never beat the game completely.  So i figured i'd change that by pairing it up many years later with the game genie and play the game.  Unfortunately, my copy of the game is so distorted from use and abuse, it can't be played.  What little visual I have on screen is just a pixelated blob.  Had the store I bought it from quality checked the item before they sold it online, then this would be a better review.  But, since it cost less than a box of chicken nuggets, I didn't bother and threw it away.Its never reissued it doesn't seem !..or else there would be cheaper used copies for common people out there? why only the machines reissued but not the games..then everyone fights over few available copies?? urr disappointing..only ones out there are like 200.00 of some games that are classics..like was so hard to find a copy of  just Mario kart even I finally found a Japanese super famicon which I found out luckily worked on my retro duo super nes/nes console..but geez.. please reissue the classics to make them easier to find to buy??This game is ok, but mostly mediocre. This is the best that the N64 had to offer alongside the wrestling games and resident evil 2? Just goes to show that the nintendrone cult are way off the mark. The Sony playstation 1 had better games and far better immersion due to having the CD storage.  This game like i said is ok but hardly as good as the nintendrones have made it out to be. The production of the game is basically weak, with the menu intro being pathetic, and the music repeating over and over and over on each board. The gameplay is ok in that i can mow down enemies while running, but the aiming sucks and it gets boring having to mow down enemies that keep spawning over and over while i figure out how to complete the mission.
Finally the multiplayer is wayyyyyy overrated. I remember playing it with 4 other players all day for  a couple days and never feeling into it. the quad split screen was a big nuisance.  Thank goodness for online play today - the games today completely own goldeneye in every category, especially the funfactor.
So yeah - there you go nintendrones - the playstation brand rightfully won that gen and your crowning achievement in console gaming has turned out to be a dated and weak title. Oh yeah Rare is now exposed as being mediocre - your cult like devotion to nintendo made them rich at least. They haven't made anything decent since thoughMario Kart 64 will always be the best. I don't consider myself fully biased, though. This game really is that bad.The game looks fine, but it doesn't work. I bought 6 games from this seller, 5 of which did not work.Nothing at all like the SNES version. Bad graphics,limited character roster,limited moves and danger moves,unresponsive controls,dreadful sound....just all around bad. I wouldn't wish this port of KI on my worst enemy. What a terrible disgrace to such a great game.What can I say, this game was dumb!  It's just a copycat of Mario Kart 64 and Mario Kart 64 has freakin' fun!  Diddy Kong Racing is a joke!  I would have rated it as "0 stars," but unfortunately I don't have that option.  If you want to give someone a hate gift, I recommend this.  But don't blame me if they surprisingly love it.Please don't get extremist on me, but I don't really like this game. It's overrated and I will stick to the first Legend of Zelda that's way better than this! Newer Zelda games are NOT my thing.AS I ASKED, WHO IN HIS/HER RIGHT MIND WOULD BUY THIS FOR A THOUSAND DOLLARS?!!!  I'll admit that I'm a fan of Transformers & would buy any of them without a second thought.  But Power Rangers?!!  It's not worth a thousand dollars; 5 dollars at the most and that's pushing it.This was the most boring game I've ever bought.  Don't let the description of multiple games with multiple characters fool you.  It's one game that you go through with various times with different characters.  The valiant  effort of a very non-linear storyline was marred by the fact that it was so  non-linear that the stories were often left being incoherent.  It's tedious  going through the same mini-quests over and over.  Most of the characters  could have been a good choice to have their own full game.
This was a  good idea, playing through multiple games where you meet up with past  characters that you played, but the games needs a huge overhaul in order to  give it more variety.
If you have a LOT of time to kill and are very  easily amused and find this game for very cheap, give it a whirl.  Otherwise, find a decent game or play Final Fantasy VII for the 10th time.  It will be much more interesting.Doesn't match the pic and I don't remember any mention of this by the seller, Again European version. I'm sure it would work on a European SNES.definitely came in rough shape the sticker practically peeling off the game and when you put the game it doesn't even work! sold me a broken game!People say this game is great. To what extent? its great horrendousness? if that is the case, then yes. this game is so hard and cant be beat unless cheated after world 6, the game is impossible. just stick with sonic on sega genesis. the graphics look like the NES, even genesis is better. just don't waste time with a snes console or games.The fact that those two wrestlers aren't in this version of WWF Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game is reason enough to avoid it.  Yoko Zuna is a big guy with very powerful moves, and Bam Bam is yet another big guy.  It's odd how they didn't include either of the two BIG guys on the Super NES.  It's not like this game has a lot of options and wrestlers anyway, so to take away two wrestlers and leave you with only six is just ridiculous.  Get the Playstation version.So i bought this game, and when i recieved it, it was tucked away in a paper envelope, just the disk and nothing else.....and lo and behold, when i take it out, it has a huge crack in it making it unplayable, so not only did i have to pay for an unplayable copy of it, i had to pay for a brand new copy of it at $25. I might review the game when i actually play it, but don't buy it without a case, make sure when you order it, it comes in some kind of protective casing, not just a disk in a sleeve

Actual Game Review: Duke is still the man, even today
Score: 5 out of 5

Ok, the only DN game i ever played fully was Duke Nukem Zero Hour, so i decided to try antoher one, and TTK seemed like a great choice since it resembled Zero Hour.....and it's just as awesome, the weapons are amazing with my personal favorite being the shotgun and the level design is fun and not to repetitive. Graphics wise it's not that bad, but it's a PS1 game from 1996, but graphics don't make the game, look at Metal Gear or Resident Evil, and Duke Nukem is just as fun as those two. If you're an action game fan, a Duke Nukem fan, or just want pure action, big explosions, bigger guns and Duke with an even bigger ego, check this game out.I sadly remember the day when this game was released.  I had waited long enough, and finally I had the game in my hands.  I remember being so excited until about 1 hour into the game.  It was then that I realized that  this game was terrible.
The graphics were nice, and the cut scenes were  above average.  The voices sounded good, and the combat was a little fast,  but adequate.
But I wasn't having fun.  I realized that the game was  pretty deep, and dwelling deeper into the game's cool storyline would  require more of the bad AI, terrible - I mean HORRIBLE combat system, and  scrappy mouse driven interface.  I couldn't take it anymore.  I wished I  could just watch the game instead of play it, then I would of been  happy.
I did what I had to do, and finally uninstalled it.  I thought of  all the money I spent, and went to find another game.  What a tradgedy that  a game with that much potential had to be ruined by an obvious rushed  product.  If your a gamer who likes fast action and addicting gameplay,  then go buy Icewind Dale or Diablo 2, not this game.Why do I rate this game 1 star? There are several reasons. First and foremost, there is NO SAVEPOINT. In short, you'll have to beat this game in ONE SITTING. Talk about patience. The second major problem that I have with this game is that it is trying to do too much. It is a top-down shooter AND a first-person shooter. The graphics in the top-down mode are fine, but the graphics and textures in FP mode are DREADFUL. Doom has FAR better variety, texture-wise. Personally, I got headaches after playing in FP mode after 30 minutes--and remember, you can't save. So the bottom line is this, if you want to kill dinosaurs, I'd recommend Jurassic Park for the old NES and the Carnivores series for PC. N64 has a Turok the Dinosaur Hunter series out. Pass this game, you'll be glad you did.It's not X. I don't know what they were thinking when they released this piece of garbage. X is a monster in this game and he sounds like an ass.This review is hard to write because I am so mad that I wasted my money on this game. Oh whoopie, you can play as Zero the fighter, butt zero is how much I should've payed for this game. There isn't one thing about this game that I like. The story [is bad] and the fight and graphics are absolutely awful. If you want a real game, don't waste your money on this. Don't even rent this game. This game is so bad it make Pong look good.the game came in and had another persons name in white out on it and didn't even work. waist of my cash.Next to Sega CD the worst version of DOOM.  The graphics suck and you can barely tell what anything is, the sound is decent (the one star), the controls are horrid, the gameplay is horrid and the shores of hell freezes up on start, so all you really have is a butchered port of Knee Deep & Inferno with horrid controls.  Terrible.First of all, Here are the PROS and CONS

PROS:

Good for the people who own a SNES, not PC.

CONS:

really bad graphics.

slower animation than PC.

you can't save the game.

It is shorter than the PC version of doom.

Overall: 0.9

This is a pretty good game, but not for SNES!

Get it on PC. That version is alot better.What a disgrace to Marvel. Neither Spidey nor the X-Men come out of this with integrity left. It's seriously one of the worst games I have ever played on the Genesis. Terrible graphics, worse gameplay and awful music. Don't be like me and assume that it must be good because Spidey is involved. I guess I should have researched it first coz it seriously is a bad, bad game.  It is sort of a cross between a side-scrolling beat-em-up and a run-and-gun game, but succeeds at neither.

It really just feels like any other generic platformer that was reskinned as a Marvel game halfway through development as very little of the gameplay feels unique to the characters. Why is Spidey jumping up ledges to climb buildings? Why is he not wall-crawling? There is some crawling, but it feels like an afterthought. The character sprites are small and puny with little weight to the animation or impact to the action, and the level design is haphazard, repetitive and generic. Sometimes you'll even have difficulty identifying exactly what the environment is supposed to be. As for the music, well...it's not memorable. It's just noise, honestly.

Stay away!I bought this game a long time ago when it first came out.  I wish I would have rented it first but I bought it anyway because it had Spiderman and the X-Men in it.  I have to say this game is just weak in all aspects of the game.  The levels are boring and unimaginative and the characters and bosses are dull.  I DON'T recommend this game at all.While this is a terrific game concept with some nice features, it is far more work than play. The core of the game is a standard 4X space empire builder, with colony management, a complex tech tree, tactical space and  ground combat, espionage, and diplomacy. But there is no centralized  display of colony status. A building must be supplied with both power and  workers in order to operate, and if it doesn't have enough of either, it  will simply shut down and the game gives you no warning or announcements.  You are forced to pause the game every few months and personally inspect  every single colony to discover these problems. But the tech system is even  worse, and has not been improved from IG1. There are three types of tech,  and so you have to have three types of labs. But you can only research one  invention at a time, so while you're developing a new hyperdrive in your  ship labs, your ground unit and colony facility labs are sitting idle,  sucking up your colony's power and workers. If you can't afford that waste,  and most of the time you can't, you have to once again personally remember  where you placed each one of up to 30 labs, go to the colony display for  each planet on which you have a lab, and turn the idle ones off, one at a  time. If you decide to develop a new building next, you have to go around  and turn off all the ship labs and turn all the building labs on again. And  I don't have room here to go into the game's futile diplomacy system, or  the sluggish screen redraw, or the constant nagging interruptions by  messages regarding random events and spies demanding orders. No offense to  the other reviewers here, but only a hardcore strategy addict with a fetish  for micromanagement could enjoy this game. I returned it four days after I  bought it.Froze every 2 seconds and that's If I was lucky enough to get it started. Good condition was hardly the correct description for this game.What the people who praise this POS software bundle don't tell you is that there hasn't been an update to download for over a year, and there probably won't ever be another one! The TRUTH is that it only runs a few games... None of which anywhere on par with a real PSX!
It's a complete waste of money unless your some techhead who wants to marvel at it's shortcomings! Get Conectix VGS if your looking for a Playstation emulator on PC! ...What good is 3d card capabilities if it doesn't run any games to begin with?this game is too old to work on todays OS's. After many attempts with dos-box and other emulation software I gave up.

I did however get it to start...once....but it locked up and pixelated, then crashed with a fatal error.so I looked online and it says that those of you hearing little rattles inside, yes that's also a battery thing. guess that's why it was glitching out and wouldn't save. I don't have the ability to replace it. or work on this game at all. this looks like a shipping problem to me.I thought originally the size of the files for the game just wouldn't load onto my laptop with a lot of space was taken. Now I have a brand new desk top and the disk will not even begin to upload on to the desktop.

Second game I have got from online that didn't work.This is a terrible game but good for the star wars collector now that everything in it is non canon.I thought Red Alert was a pretty fun game. This was just a clone of red alert though. The people that make C&C need to come up with some more ideas. All the C&C games are exactly the same. I didn't like Red Alert to start with so Tiberian Sun has to be worse.Unless you intend to cheat and mod the game don't waste your money. Uneven gameplay,and few options plague this game,it is also way too short even at this reduced price. Spend your money on a game,just not this one. Hope this helps,I hate to have games collecting dust,but this is one of those and I own about 50 recent games so I know what's what.There's many that love this so-called masterpiece, but the only thing I like about this boring/repetitive game is the great soundtrack. Sticking to the superior original.Getting this game would be a waste of time and money.  For halfthe price of this I'd rather get a game that offers better graphics,better realism, and better everything.  If you haven't already guessed it's Red Alert.  Even though it looks pretty good, after about a week you won't want to play it anymore.  With Red Alert I continually go back to try just one more strategy... I think they just sat down and set a deadline for this game and the guys making it waited until the last week to do it.  Right now all you need to do is type in the search box up there "Red Alert" and buy that game... You will have a way better game and not spend as much.