I recently tried playing this game, and by this point, my N64 is lucky it didn't get chucked out the window. The first few passes through the first few stages were fine, and pretty fun, but the rest of the game ends up being one long, annoying, tedious, impossible, and frustrating chore.

To start off, the control just isn't good enough to pull off HALF the things you need to do in this game. There are instances where you must execute specific jumps to get you from point A to point B, but half the time, the controller is non-responsive. Especially when it comes to levels that put you high up, this usually means falling...over and OVER again!

To add to this annoyance is the fact that there are no check points. If a level requires you to go to the top of a mountain, and you spend half an hour just getting up there and then you fall, you have to climb the whole thing ALL OVER AGAIN! So if you're like me, and find your self wondering off cliffs every other try because of the awful camera work, you will be playing the same stages over and over with no payoff but one big headache!

Now let's talk about the camera. Throughout most of the game, I found my self fighting IT more than I fought Bowser. It's simply impossible to judge distances based on where the camera is facing at any given time. Pressing the C buttons will move it around, but you have to keep perfectly still in order to avoid suddenly gong sideways or backwards. If you are in a stage where there is a time limit or a complicated jump, this can be particularly fatal.

Adding to this frustration is the fact that it is incredibly easy to over or under jump! This wouldn't be as much of a problem if it weren't for all the levels which require you to get to "the top" of things. Again, if you fall once, that's it, you start all over again. If the game designers weren't going to give you any continue points in these levels, why-o-why did they make it SO FRIGGIN' EASY FOR YOU TO FALL!!!???

There are plenty of levels and stages in this game, and lots to do in all of them. But by the time I cleared one stage, I really questioned whether or not I wanted to even GO to the next. Finally, after reaching a mere 52 stars, my answer is no.

So that's my two cents on this game, I can't beat it, I don't want to beat it. I'd rather go to a Morrissey concert with Kathy Griffin as the opening act than try to play it again. It would me MUCH less annoying than this game!