I'm pretty sick and tired of people calling Super Mario 64 a classic.  It's not.  Just because it's significant and influential in helping pave the way for future Mario titles doesn't mean Super Mario 64 is deserving of its classic status, or that it's any fun to actually play.  Super Mario Galaxy came along and pretty much improved every single aspect of Super Mario 64 so you basically no longer have to play this game other than to get a dated taste of mid 90's gaming history.  The only other possible reason someone would play Super Mario 64 is because they desperately seek open world exploration, and this is basically the only Mario platformer that can at least attempt to satisfy gamers with that particular appetite.  Not that I personally believe the game succeeds at the exploring aspect either.

The biggest problem is that so much of the land you explore consists of emptiness.  Oh sure you'll see trees, ramps, castles, buildings, enemies such as goombas, chain chomps, badly and laughably animated thwomps lifting up and slamming down, pokeys, rolling boulders, and other things that have become a trademark of the Mario series, but the amount of items to find and collect is *extremely* limited to coins (both yellow and red ones) and the occasional power-up that enables Mario to either fly (which admittedly is pretty fun) or obtain the incredibly boring metal cap that makes Mario invincible.  An alternative to the starman perhaps, with lousy side effects (Mario can't jump as high or far while wearing the metal cap).

When you're not experiencing the endless disappointment that is running across empty and boring lands and basically doing nothing but wasting time, you're jumping across a series of unspectacular and very ordinary-presented platforms over and *over* again.  This stuff seriously resembles a beginners course for developing platforms.  It's extremely basic game design.  The platforms are generic square-shaped tiles for you to jump across that quite often are all the same exact size.  It gets monotonous almost immediately.  Only unreasonable Nintendo fans would eat this stuff up, seriously.  Anybody else would obviously be able to detect flawed, repetitive gameplay.  The 2D Mario games move at such a swift pace that you don't even have time to stop and notice the platforms (unless you're an extremely slow gamer).  This is mainly because you don't have to stop and situate Mario a certain way for the purpose of making the perfect jump which is what severely ruins Super Mario 64's gameplay.  And don't EVEN say my skills are horrible when it's obvious through countless youtube videos that several gamers have the same exact issue.

While I'm by no means someone who cares about the best graphics available, you gotta admit the ones here have dated horrendously with embarrassing blocky shapes pretty much occupying most areas of the game.  The buildings, water and trees in particular are just awful for the eyes.  Nothing appealing whatsoever about any of the graphics- even the bright inviting colors don't lure me in but rather rub me the wrong way and force some of us older gamers to recall the unpleasant days of Mario Paint.

You have to collect 120 stars in order to complete the game 100% but guess what?  Many of the stars are flat out boring to collect due to being pathetically easy and basically being handed to you within minutes.  What kind of challenge is that?  The one where you have to swim around and open treasure chests in a certain order is baby-ish, and the one where you swim around collecting 8 predictably located red coins inside a basic building near the beginning of the game is offensive.  Or how about simply stomping a post into a ground to release a gate and thus, release the star?  Don't even *think* about mentioning the ones where you walk up to Toad and he simply hands you the star.  Granted, the game seems to always alternate easy star-collecting challenges with longer and more drawn out ones as a way to balance things out but that's the problem- the stars are either too easy or too long.  There is one star mission so awful it makes your inevitable death seem like something to anticipate- the one where you have to jump across a series of moving poles.  You have to jump at *just* the right moment while making sure you're positioned in the right spot.  This takes forever and is dreadfully annoying.

Also, what's up with all the little baby games?  Grab a baby penguin and slide down a snowy hill?  Chase the bunny so he doesn't hop away?  These are not suitable for anyone who recalls the challenging portions of previous 2D gaming such as Super Mario Bros. 3 or Super Mario World (and yes, these bunny grabbing missions are flaws in Super Mario Galaxy too, in case you think I'm intentionally favoring Super Mario Galaxy for no reason).  At least the cannon-shooting parts are cool.  It's fun figuring out where to launch Mario so he can land safely on upper grounds.

I can't help but feel the red star collecting is overrated.  When you collect red stars in Yoshi's Island, you feel like you're given a really elaborate and perfectly executed assignment since you also have to collect flowers and stars to 100% complete a stage.  It's a lot to do not to mention really darn exciting and satisfying once you've acquired all these items, and constantly keeps your attention span in check while searching for them.  Super Mario 64 basically takes that one red coin-collecting element of Yoshi's Island and makes it a main priority here.  You often have to collect 8 red coins per stage (opposed to 20 in Yoshi's Island) to obtain one of the 120 stars.  Ugh.

But nothing NOTHING is worse than the fact you have to re-enter stages over and over again just to grab all the stars that are located throughout.  To me this is unquestionably lazy game design.  How can it be anything else?  Who in their right mind would actually *want* to keep going back to the same exact stage ad nauseam?  Super Mario World was guilty of this too granted but not NEARLY to this exaggerated extent.  A terrible idea that gives a false impression a game has replay value but it's exactly the opposite- once you go through the same stage a bunch of times and finally accomplish everything there is to offer, you won't want to repeat these same objectives ever again.  So... you probably won't want to play Super Mario 64 ever again.  Even worse- when you often have to search for 100 coins to obtain a star.  This can take up to 20 minutes and bore you the entire time.  Being forced to collect 100 coins is a lazy way of assuring gamers don't leave any stone unturned because you basically have to thoroughly search every nook and cranny of a stage to even *find* 100 of them.

I also dislike how many of the classic enemies aren't included here such as the hammer brothers, buzzy beetles, bloopers, and cheep cheeps.  Even the koopa troopa is nowhere to be seen (well, other than that one race in the beginning).  You can ride a koopa shell like a skateboard but that doesn't count as an enemy appearance.  He's not a true enemy here.  Why is that?  Why not include all the familiar and well-loved enemies that have become a trademark to the Mario series?  They ruin the pirahna plants by the way.  Why is he sleeping?  Granted he comes alive when you get near, but it's a really weird concept.  At least Nintendo got the boos and haunted house right- a surprising and exciting maze-like high point of the game.  It's a lot of fun sorting through each room of the haunted house stages.  *That's* how you design a memorable stage.  Obviously if you weren't busy running around through several vast and average-designed empty fields of grass, there could have EASILY been room for the inclusion of more enemies.  Hey I'm all for open world exploration, but you have to actually fill in those areas with exciting, creative items that are both fun and rewarding to collect for the player, and enemies that present threatening encounters and a rush of excitement.  Simply throwing Mario into a big 3D world because it's his first grand 3D adventure truthfully isn't going to get the job done I'm afraid.  More needs to be done.

Constantly having to rearrange the camera so you can see where you're actually going is a nuisance.  Nobody likes dealing with a camera while jumping around trying to play a video game, but granted, several games back in the mid to late 90's were guilty of the same camera problems since developers were still getting their feet wet so to speak, and figuring out the best way to help players accurately and conveniently see what's ahead.  Still, you'll lose more than a few lives due to bad camera angles in Super Mario 64.  I guarantee it.  One thing I *do* like about this game is how fast Mario runs.  It's a fast-moving game, which helps going from point A to point B more convenient. Also some of the wall jumps and triple jumps are fun to execute.  Reminds me of Super Metroid in that respect.  Yoshi is teased in this game (I won't spoil how) but he's not actually playable which doesn't make sense.  Why make an appearance if he's not going to be playable?

The music is either extremely good (the brilliant peaceful moodiness of the water theme and the intimidating and exciting heavy metal-like Bowser fights) or downright horrendous (everything else, which consists of annoying nursery rhyme children's themes inappropriate and painfully skull-smashing for the rest of us).  I can't STAND the theme songs that play in Whomp's Fortress and Rainbow Ride- two unforgivable themes that make me want to smash my brains in whenever I play Super Mario Galaxy 2 where they return in all their overbearingly annoying glory.  Rainbow Ride in particular reminds me of a county hayride where kids ride around on tractors (not to mention the stage itself is extremely tedious and overlong).  The snowy mountain stage with the Italian accordion music is sickening and out of place.  Just mute the volume on your TV to make life easier for yourself.  The boss fights are incredibly simplistic- grab Bowser's tail, spin him around and toss him, or pick up/stomp other bosses.  Basic, boring stuff.

A few stages that are actually fun include Lethal Lava Land where the platforms convincingly feel like an upgrade into the 3D world from the original Super Mario Bros. castle levels (not to mention better/more interesting use of platform jumping compared to the rest of the levels in SM64), Shifting Sand Land since it's packed with obstacles and enemies (and reasonably challenging overall), and Tall Tall Mountain's tricky climb to the top (involving a vine climbing portion).  In fact, to be fair, Tall Tall Mountain is one of the best levels ever in a 3D Mario game.  It's *that* good.  Bowser's castle levels are pretty solid as well, mostly due to the fast-paced nature of them.

Several things feel tacky- the 1-ups and coins are small, dark, ugly looking, and clumsily made due to less than spectacular graphics and game design, and overall Super Mario 64 is just a really lackluster and highly overrated game.  If not for influence, this game would have been forgotten and the superior Super Mario Galaxy series would have prevailed even more dominantly than they already do.  Oh and don't even mention the cake-eating storyline.  It's atrocious.  The fact they brought it back for the Galaxy series makes me want to vomit.