My father is a seaman. I have seen many ships, sailed with him around the world numerous times. So ships are in my blood. When i saw this game I bought it without batting an eyelid. Well I wish I didn't because I now regret my decision.

The game is unique in its concept. We never really had a maritime ship simulation that wasn't centrally focused on war and sinking other ships :). This one happens to be just peace-time shipping simulation with different kinds of detailed ships ranging from cargo, to passenger, to rescues, to towing, to even trying to alter history by succesfully sailing Titanic to New york on its first maiden voyage etc. The game creator has gone to great details to simulate as much as possible the Intricacies of piloting as well as managing huge ships operations. Any aspiring sea captian or sea salt will identify with some if not most aspects of piloting a ship as simulated in this game. But to me thats where all the goodies end.

The cons associated with game are just too game-breaking to me and i have essentially stopped playing the game. Until these issues gets addressed i am not spending anymore money on this games series.

First and foremost this game badly needs a voluntary "Time Compression" feature. Not all of us have 2-3 hours to devote each time we decide to play this game to have some fun. Sometimes it take an hour or so just to get out of harbour and tag some hours more on this to complete the mission. With a game in which you are looking at ocean waves for hours this gets boring really fast. This is just plain very annoying and game destroying factor to me. I know some people have all the time in the world to savour and enjoy games but a lot don't too. Since its not a action oriented game the passage of time is felt even more. If they can incorporate a Time Compression feature it will make the game lot more open to different segments of gamers.

Second is the still dated graphics engine. I see lots of people commenting on how good the graphics look. I have a pretty good rig and i can play games like Mass Effect and Silent Hunter 4 in almost thearatical quality but even with everything maxed out this game just looks medicore graphics wise. The ships and ocean etc. looks very simplistically rendered from today's standard. The graphical quality of this game released in 2008 is kind of dissappointing though.

Last some of the missions in the game are just plain novice or fillers in my opinion. This game is geared towards people who like to pilot huge ships yet we have a lot of missions devoted to speed boats for stunts, hover boats etc. I bought the game to simulate a ship expirience not go around flipping in speed boats.

Anyways..i wouldn't really recommend anyone spend $40 bucks on this game. Wait until it gets to $19 or so bargain bin. And i hope the developers put some real effort into make a more viable ship simluator for its next incarnation or you are not getting any more money from me.