Well, what do we have here folks?  A bad movie tie in game?  Well, what else is new?  A Bugs life for the Playstation is a almost universally hated game.  I really didint know what to expect when I first fired it up to try it out.  Did I like it?  Not a whole lot.

You start the game where you must get to your anthill.  You start walking around, getting used to playing, listining to Flick talking, following Dot, and killing evil bugs.  In a few minutes however, you start to realize something.  Flick will not be quiet.  He keeps going on and on and on and on and on and on and on with his annoying comments.  You finish the level and go on to the next level and keep up this pattern untill the end of the game.

  Up untill then, if you haven't tried to get all the little goodies, you will have had a fun time.  But when you play again to try and get all the secrets, the trouble really begins.  For instance, to unlock a movie clip, you must collect all the letters of your name, collect 50 grain kernals, and kill all the bad bugs.  Sounds simple right?  Dont be an idiot.  getting all the grain pices is fairley hard but manigable.  Getting your name is really tough.  In one area you will see the letter F for F-L-I-C-K  To get it, you have to get a tall stalk.  To get the tall stalk, you must collect green tokens scattered throughout the level to power up the stalk power.  After collecting all the tokens, some of which are guarded by really tough bad bugs and others that are placed where you have to use another bug power to get it, you can finially reach the letter...once you get a seed.  Which is located a mile away from the letter.  You have to get the seed and take it to the letter, all the while getting attacked by bad bugs and listining to Flicks annoying commentary.  Once you get the stalk, put it in place and break it open, climb the stalk and get the letter.  Wasent that fun kids!  And you have to do that for EVERY SINGLE LETTER!!!! And don't forget that you have to kill all the bad bugs.  To do that you have to get the tokens for berry power, which are located throughout the level.  However some of them are located out of reach, and you can only reach them by getting a tall plant to help you out.  To do that, you must collect green tokens and get seeds to help you out and yada yada yada yada blah blah blah.

  Get the idea of how frustrating this game can be?  And along with all that, Flick does not shut up, he keeps saying something every 10 seconds.  Along with all these problems, you have to deal with bad graphics, a annoying camera and some really HARD token collecting levels later on in the game (Such as the tree level)

A bugs life does have a few nice points.  Some of the levels are neat, such as the boss battles.  The final battle with Hopper at the end of the game is very cool.  The music is by far the best part of the game, almost all of the tunes are very memorable and addictive.  But beyond that, the things that try to enable replay value almost destroy the game.  Rent before you buy.  Did I mention that Flick never shuts up?

The good:
Some neat levels
cool boss battles
excelent music
the final level

The bad:
none

and the Ugly:
Horrible graphics, abysmal gameplay, Token collecting is impossibly hard, annoying levels, Frustrating ennimies and FLICK DOES NOT SHUT UP!!!