What the Resi series of games does, it does well - OTT Hollywood-style scares and genetically-mutated things that go Bump In The Night. RE 3 is no different, providing more of the same for fans who love it. It also boasts one or two gameplay improvements, but somehow can't quite get back to the glory days of the first 2 games in the series.
The plot follows the heroine from the first game, Jill, 24 hours before and after the devastating outbreak of the T-Virus in RE 2. A novel concept, and one which Capcom surely intended to exploit fully. The inclusion of the Nemesis character, a Frankenstein-like monster who relentlessly pursues you from start to finish, is also a nice twist, adding much-neede dtension to the game whenever he makes an appearance. The menus and controls are also tweaked, most notably the inclusion of the 'Turn' and 'Dodge' features, which, if learned properly, add hugely to the gameplay.
Graphically RE 3 is as good as RE 2. It's as detailed, and lush as before. The intro is strangely disappointing, being lo-res and choppily animated - the PlayStation 1's power is being overused. The sound is good, though, and the gameplay is the best possible version of an imperfect control system.
The problems with RE 3 lie mainly in the game's production. It's nigh-on impossible to keep track of yourself for the first thirty minutes or so, and the map for this portion of the game is difficult to spot. The baddies are souped-up versions from the previous games and are actually too difficult to kill initially. You waste precious ammo and health packs before you realise that you can take multiple paths. Also, Nemesis, though an excellent inclusion, is again too intense for the early stages of the game, and more often than not you'll find yourself cursing Capcom while waiting for your game to reload after he's dispatched you. Again.
As the game continues, you realise that the baddies have an unfair advantage over you, and you will end up running past the majority of them. The satisfaction of knowing a Zombie is cornered just isn't there anymore. You also miss out on some beautiful backdrops and vitally important clues becuase you're too busy avoiding some ridiculously over-populated area.
A vast, sprawling game that does yield some rewards for die-hard fans, RE 3 is not a good way to introduce yourself to the series because of its unforgiving difficulty. The storyline may also confuse newcomers. If you're a fan who doesn't mind being confused and frustrated, then check it out. If not, wait for something better, like Code: Veronica, or anything in the Silent Hill series.