Back in 1996, Capcom introduced  both Japanese and Americans gamers a brand-new world of videogaming. Despite the rather awkward name of "Resident Evil", which is just plain out laughable, the title has become a household name. This movie-like, horror series can be written down as a new genre of gaming, horror. Yeah, very few games caused gamers to devastatingly sob (Aeries' funeral in Final Fantasy VII), some games built mystery or suspense (Gray Fox's desperate attack and impressive dialogue in Metal Gear Solid), but Resident Evil led the player to leap in fright or frantically jitter. Capcom inserted blood-thirsty zombies as the adversary, and the player's fear as the biggest opposition. In a sense, it is a movie.  Useless to say, Resident Evil was among the titanic series that landed on the Sony PlayStation. The original game presented an amazing surface. However it suffered from terrible voice acting and a somewhat dull story. Capcom extremely went hard at work for their sequel. Powerful hype erupted when Resident Evil 2 was announced. Anxious gamers couldn't wait to get their grubby paws on a copy. Resident Evil 2 altered the gaming industry. Other home console companies decided to cash in while the genre was sizzling hot. Konami cashed in with Silent Hill. Survival/Adventure games went mainstream.  After RE2 respectfully lived, a third installment was introduced, this time hype was scarce. It came out too quickly and sources claimed the interface was going to be identical as the other two. Fearing the worst, the third installment seemed to be a horrible move for Capcom.  And is.  From the experience of the two Resident Evil games, the player may expect the "scare moments." While playing on a big screen t.v., with surround sound, the volume almost reverberating the room, and a sudden pack of grunting zombies crashing out a window, I felt no fear. Amateurs to the Resident Evil series may have a chill ride their spine, but original fans will expect each scare attempt. Though few changes have been added, RE3 fails to take a leap over the original Resident Evil 2. In other words just imagine playing Resident Evil 2 but with more rooms and more puzzle solving.  RE2 is the strongest and most remembered in the series. When catching a glimpse of RE3, excitement was absent. RE3 seems it brought the entire series in shame. The story must take a new direction! Like taking a role of an umbrella agent, or the T-Virus spreading somewhere else than Racoon City. Nemesis, a ferocious, mean, bazooka- equipped devil who hunts the player, proves to be a pathetic antagonist and challenge.  The minigames granted after beating the game bring little life at the game's abrupt end. The slogan, "if the Suspense doesn't kill you, then something else will," lives truly in the second game.