Finally, Sega releases a video game system that rises above mediocrity!  Sega is famous for all kinds of failed (and embarrassing) video game consoles they brought to the world, but this time they actually "kind of" got it right with the Dreamcast.

Unfortunately, Sega made a gigantic mistake that almost immediately brought down any chance of the Dreamcast becoming a success.  They chose to release the Dreamcast in late 1999.  Gaming fans vividly remember what happened to the Sega Saturn just a couple years before, and people weren't going to be fooled again.  This was now or never for Sega.  If the Dreamcast failed, Sega would be gone from the hardware market forever.

The release date for the Dreamcast was getting closer and closer.  It was in September of 1999.  People were still very happy with their Playstation One because 1999 was one of Sony's highlights for spectacular and revolutionary gaming.  That wasn't the only thing going on.  Sony fans were also anticipating the release of the Playstation 2, which was guaranteed to become the dominant console thanks to the relentless power and popularity the Playstation One was responsible for.  It was during this time Sony was far and away the most powerful company in the video game business.  Sega saw trouble ahead but continued to move forward with the expected Dreamcast release date.

Nintendo was also very much alive and in the big picture with the Gamecube.  Nintendo was content on making sure their fans would NOT be disappointed with the Gamecube the way they were with the N64.  Nintendo fans are loyal.  *Nothing* can knock out Nintendo.  Nintendo recognized their mistake with the N64 and knew they could make it right again.  They knew they could give the Playstation 2 a run for its money (and looking back, Nintendo did just that).

And so, the release date for the Dreamcast arrived.  With Nintendo and Sony on top of their game, what would happen?  What would happen to Sega?  The Dreamcast would hit the market and... nothing.  No sound.  No noise.  So little was said about the Dreamcast on the release date that it was like Sega had died right then and there.  An eerie silence for a company that gave the world Sonic the Hedgehog.

The Dreamcast failed because there were already more than enough successful gaming consoles on the market in 1999, and people didn't want the Dreamcast to interfere with the superior, soon-to-be-released Sony and Nintendo gaming systems.  Sega also failed because of their long, frustrating history of ripping people off with unsatisfactory video game systems (such as the Sega CD and Sega Saturn).  Sega would fool people into thinking they had something extraordinary in the works... only to end up not supporting it.  They had trouble supporting the video game consoles they created and would often leave people with failed attempts and false hopes.  Sega would always fall asleep on the job.  This would happen time and time again, with Sega hoping the brain-dead masses would buy their average, incomplete gaming consoles.  It's like the people who worked for Sega would always say "let's start something and not finish it".

When Sega failed YET AGAIN with the Saturn, people finally couldn't TAKE anymore.  Anyone who was still a Sega fan by that point pretty much lost all hope.  Sega was now the enemy and they had to go.  A gaming console needs a giant selection of games, and unfortunately Sega only understood that ONE TIME in their lackluster history (with the Genesis).  Every other console they released only had a few classics to choose from among a bunch of average games.

In the case of the Dreamcast, Sega tried to support it but it was too late.  Sony had defeated them.  Sony had defeated BOTH the Saturn and the Dreamcast with the overpowering success of the Playstation One.  Hard to believe but it's true: the Playstation One knocked out BOTH the Saturn and the Dreamcast  off the market, making both of those consoles nothing more than a disappointing memory for Sega fans.

In 1999, Sega knew they wouldn't be able to compete with the Playstation 2, so they finally did the right thing in early 2001 by announcing that they would never again make another video game console.  Sega was DONE.  They admitted defeat.  That, my friends, made milions and millions of people very happy.  No more junk on the market.  That announcement was the best thing that could have happened, and if you happened to glance outside that day you would have noticed the sun smiling down on everyone.

That meant no more arrogant Sega promotion.  I used to hate the way Sega would always promote their games by putting down Nintendo and Sony.  Now I can laugh at it.  Sega really thought they could trick people into buying their crappy games by constantly making fun of Nintendo and Sony.  Didn't work.  Nintendo and Sony fans are too smart and considerate for that immature nonsense.  I bet everyone responsible for the Playstation's creation were laughing in piles of money over the "fly, play thing, fly" commercial that Sega created in an attempt to make Sony look second-rate.  Ha!  That ugly, gray-colored box destroyed both the Saturn and the Dreamcast, and I hope Sega fans never forget it.

It's almost 2007 and people are STILL talking about the Gamecube and Playstation 2.  Why?  Because they are successful video game consoles.  People will look back and REMEMBER them as successful consoles.  No one remembers that the Dreamcast tried to compete with them at one point.  People forgot the Dreamcast even EXISTED when the year 2002 came around.  Sega's video game consoles immediately became dated and forgettable once companies stopped making games for them.  If Sega had put less energy into putting down the competition and more energy into offering their customers *complete* and enjoyable gaming consoles, maybe they'd still be around today.  As it stands, they deserved to watch Nintendo and Sony destroy them.  Nintendo and Sony didn't have to stoop to dirty tactics to win over fans and the world is now a better place.

With the release of Nintendo's new revolutionary Wii system coming to America this November, along with the Playstation 3, we don't have to laugh at Sega's silly attempt to compete only to end up being the laughing stock of the world.  Goodbye Sega.