You know, sitting behind a computer screen, I'm glad no one can see the look of disappointment that appeared on my very face the minute I began playing Tekken 3. I am incredibly disappointed that after reading so many positive reviews claiming Tekken 3 to not only be a significant improvement over the previous two Tekken games, but also tagged "the ultimate tournament fighter" that the actual game would turn out to be *so* underwhelming.

Tekken 3 really surprised me. But don't take that as a compliment. I went into Tekken 3 with hardly any experience with fighting games whatsoever. I took a break for 10 years with tournament fighters after all those lousy 2D Mortal Kombat games brought me to tears. Back then I figured "okay, either I don't like fighting games or maybe I just don't like the Mortal Kombat series". This was when Mortal Kombat 2 and 3 were popular on the Super NES and Genesis.

A lot can change with a human being in 10 years. We grow older, we decide we want to learn about life and wonder where we came from, and we develop an apprecation for the things we have and the people who are in our lives. To put it simply, we're thankful to be alive and feel good. But in some situations, things can remain EXACTLY the same. All those extreme feelings of hatred returned to me immediately after only 5 minutes with Tekken 3. It was the exact same feeling of hopelessness I encountered with the Mortal Kombat series.

I really have no idea what went wrong. No, not with the game, I mean, what went wrong with ME. Seeing as how I love watching people fight and kick butt on TV shows and movies, I figured it was only natural that the fighting style in the world of video games would appeal to me. Appeal to me a LOT. That was my assumption. But apparently it STILL hasn't happened. Tekken 3 was supposed to help me wash away all the bad memories of playing old Mortal Kombat games and give me a fresh start and hopefully help me develop an appreciation for the ever-popular genre of games known as "tournament fighters". Nope. It's really disappointing to me to find out that Tekken 3 is just as bad as the rest of the fighters I've played, and basically the same thing but with improved graphics, for that matter. All fighting games feel the same to me. It doesn't even matter if they are 2D or 3D fighters.

Tekken 3, despite all the positive reviews, does NOT appeal to me whatsoever. The fighting is really clunky, and it seems each fighter delivers very basic and boring moves to each other. It's not interesting or inspiring at ALL to me. It's boring to watch, and even more boring to play. Why is it so much fun when they fight this way in movies but *not* interesting when it's time to do the same thing in a video game? I have no idea. If you want to pull off the really impressive looking moves in Tekken 3, you have to press a bunch of buttons on the controller in a really complicated way in order to complete a move that COULD have been made *much* easier with a very simple and quick sequence of buttons. Strong emphasis on the word "simple". Many moves actually require you to press the Circle button, and then jump over to the Square button. How is someone supposed to easily master this? Going from Circle to Square is NOT easy.

You see, for each of the ten characters in the game, they have major power moves that are very important to master because these are the moves that are supposed to cause the most damage to an opponent. However, many of these moves are incredibly difficult and sophisticated to pull off, and this is a *really* bad thing because the company responsible for this game apparently doesn't understand the importance of making a fighting game easy to master for everyone, of all ages. That way, young and old people alike can appreciate the Tekken style.

It really bothers me how ALL of the developers who release fighting games assume the player is automatically completely aware how to play the game. They assume this *every single time* they release a fighting game. Developers assume everyone who plays these kind of games will be able to understand them instantly. We're supposed to be gifted players when it comes to understanding how to successfully pull off any number of lengthy and devestating combos to our opponents. We're supposed to have enough time to press really awkward button combinations on the Playstation controller during a fast-paced and intense fighting match. Not just combos either- regular moves too. We're supposed to have enough patience to continue trying the same fight over and over as we die a million times and the frustration factor increases significantly, and we realize just how IMPOSSIBLE these kind of games are.

Well, I have news for every developer out there: many of us have a really difficult time with games like this. Not everyone who plays fighting games should automatically be expected to be a skilled player. Not all of us hang out at local arcades wasting tons of quarters as we try and perfect our skills. Some of us are, you know, average "normal" gamers who just like to have fun. The developers of tournament fighters NEVER could understand this, and years later, they still can't understand what it's like to have fun. We shouldn't have to be a genius to play a fighting game. Not all of us can press the EXACT moves at the EXACT moment and win fights. Maybe one day a tournament fighter will be invented for a gaming console that will be specifically designed to be playable for people who struggle with them. Maybe one day...

Other things I don't like about Tekken 3. Despite having excellent graphics, the music is a bunch of horrible, repetitive techno sounds that hardly make me feel compelled to continue playing the game. Oh, and by the way, even though the graphics are really a notch above the rest, there's absolutely no reason to jump with joy when looking at them. Since the fighting is just as basic and uninspiring as that of, oh I don't know, Killer Instinct (another terrible game) you quickly stop caring about how the game looks. In fact, I'd say the fighting engine is EXACTLY like that old Super Nintendo game Killer Instinct. Extremely uninteresting. When someone throws a punch, it's so boring to watch that you just don't care about it. That's what Tekken 3 is all about. Having a fighting engine that's so boring you don't even care if you win or lose.

I'm disappointed. That's the only thing I can say at the moment. Maybe one day an easy tournament fighter will hit the market where the main purpose of the game is to have the computer opponents move along at a reasonable pace for all the normal people out there who constantly struggle with fighting games. A game that will give people the much needed time and patience to put a move on their opponent. A game where you aren't expected to hurry up just to deliver a simple move. Somehow, despite hundreds of tournament fighters that will eventually hit stores, I doubt this will ever happen. I will never buy another tournament fighter again. Ever.