On paper Hellfire seems like a great idea. Take a really good game, add a couple additional levels, quests, items and monsters, put in a couple of new classes, and bam: instant winner.

Sadly that doesn't pan out in practice. Part of it is that the Hellfire design feels largely uninspired and lacks the cohesiveness, balance and ingenuity that went into original Diablo. In fact there are only two really good features in Hellfire. The first is the "Jog" toggle that allows your character to run in Tristram. Too bad it doesn't function in the dungeons. The second is the "Search" spell that helps you locate items on the ground. Unfortunately it's a spell, so you have to spend mana on it. Blizzard rolled up both these features in Diablo II in much improved form. As it stands they end up not benefiting Diablo very much.

The rest of the additions are just mediocre or worse. The new character class is fun, but kinda unbalanced, and doesn't really add a lot of depth. Lots of stuff feels tacked on and has an inconsistent art style that doesn't match Diablo's polish. There aren't really a lot of new quests. One (of the two) new area is downright annoying. Some of the best features can only be enabled by editing a special file outside the game.

The worst part of Hellfire is that playing it means making a tradeoff. It is not a seamless expansion to Diablo - it's almost like a separate game. Your Diablo characters aren't portable between Hellfire and the original game, so you have to roll new ones. And while Diablo went on to gain five more patches after Hellfire's release - Sierra only patched their game once... so Hellfire players have to contend with bugs long-fixed in Diablo. In addition to those bugs, Hellfire brings a set of its own, which never got resolved. Hellfire players can't (without hacking the game) play multiplayer. This expansion is not playable on Battle.net. The music in new areas is lacking, and because it isn't read from the CD, the game glitches whenever an item is picked up. The drop system is bugged out the wazoo, to where finding some of the new unique items is actually impossible.

I would really recommend this one only to die-hard Diablo fans. Those without it are not missing out on anything. Sierra tried to pull it off but they just couldn't match that Blizzard standard set by the original game, and the new features aren't worth fighting the bugs and irritants brought on by this expansion.