Loser! The cars in this game don't leave behind any dust, they bite the dust! It's no wonder that Activision didn't dare tie this game directly into Interstate '76. There is just no comparison to the classic game. I would love to compare this game but since Activision isn't doing that I won't either. Let's go down the list of Graphics, Control, Game Play, Sound/Music, and Fun Factor. That will give or take one star for each category.
Graphics: Where does one start on the graphics? As far as the level of detail and the amount of destruction available, it is indeed a very good game. Games of this nature tend to over simplified with little or no detail in the buildings and surrounding terrain. Activision programmers spent a lot of time on the details in the game, I wish they spent the same amount of time on the game's engine. The game engine plays like a first generation game. There is such an incredible amount of popping, crazing, stretching, and disappearing polygons, any good programmer should have never allowed this kind of thing to even leave his development PC. For those out of the loop I'll define the problems.
Popping- Terrain popping up out of no where. Programmers usually solve this with careful use of fog. Yes folks, that is the true use of fog. However fog in this game is under utilized. Almost like it was thrown in at the last minute.
Crazing/Stretching- This tends to be very similar. Various walls or architecture seems to twist or stretch into bizarre angles. If you have the game drive the car directly up against a vertical wall and you'll see it. The level with the lighthouse is a prime example.
Disappearing polygons- This is a serious no no in games. Drive to the edge of any arena until the car "bounces" if you can get the proper slope of land (about a 45 degree angle.) and the camera swings low enough, parts of the ground will disappear and be replaced by a livid blue (or red depending on the generation of PSX console or some other factor).
Control: Unfortunately, this game can't decide on Arcadian controls or Real World controls, so it attempts to do a half and half deal. The car's accelerates and steers like it's running through molasses, unless of course it floats, then it feels like it's skimming around on ice. In fact, control's so bad that I tend to get and use the hovercraft mode or the boat mode more often than not. The only major saving grace is that the controls are 100% configurable. I myself don't like the default uses for the buttons. Especially for my style of play which involves using my thumb to press two or three buttons at the same time. (Old School Mario Style if you will.)
Gameplay: Game play is frustrating at best. (Why is the "Arcade" mode listed before "Quest" mode?) The various modes of the game should be fun, but really, are more of a frustrating exercise in patience. Past experience tells me that arcade mode is a great way to "practice" the details of the game. In this case, it actually is set up that way. Hints and tips are handed to you before each battle. Cars can be limited in number and difficulty. And goals are clearly defined. However, actually doing all of this takes a bit of work. The number of "configuration" screens one must churn through is heart breaking. Whatever happened to a "simple" game session? And the enemies seem to be overly ruthless. Whereas quest mode seems to be the easiest of the modes, having blasted through 4 of the drivers in the first few hours of playing. I really didn't have much patience to even try the survival mode.
Sound/Music: I try not to review music or sound in games but in this case it will be the only whole star for this game. The music is indeed sweet to listen to. The tunes are strangely familiar, but I can't place my finger on it. It also appears that there is one song for each of the characters to play. The book lists 15 characters and I believe there are 15 songs. It's quite fun to try and match the songs to the characters. The music would have been a blast if they used real world 70's music but alas, the licensing would be too much. The only annoying sound effect is those stinkin' UFO's. Kind of makes me want to turn the CD into a UFO.
Fun Factor: Fun Factor can't get much lower. The only fun things here is the quest mode and two player mode. It's always nice to play ANY game with two players, especially one that lets us rag on it like it's Elevator Action (Waaay back in the NES days.) The quest mode is nice for those late night no-brainer sessions where your brain is too fried to think about anything else.
Sorry if this review is just as jumbled as the game itself. Watching the game world twist and spin in sickening ways scrambled my poor brain. The results?
Half a star for graphics but bad engine. No stars for the controls. No stars for game play. One star for music and sound. And half a star for the fun factor. That's all. Hope Activision's third attempt isn't a . . . dump.