This sequel to Vigilante 8 has taken a backseat to the first and gone way downhill, crashing into burning flames and leaving nothing but a huge wreck. And instead of rating it high and then commenting on how much I want to play this game, or complain about it not being delivered, I'm actually reviewing the game from having actually played it!!!

The graphics may be slightly better then the 1st version, but the game-play has come down badly. Tho it is fun for a few seconds to have your vehicle slide down ski-slops, or get picked up by crane magnets and ski-lifts, or have your car blown off the road by jet engines, the vehicles response is horrible compared to the first. You have less control this time, the car won't do the 360's properly, and in lighter cars, you spend more time upside down trying to flip back over, because of opponents rockets, then anything else.

The levels seem much smaller too. Someone said there is 50 levels, what are you on about? There is not 50 levels.... it would have been nice to be able to unlock some of the levels of the last one, but instead you have to play the new ones, which have more potholes, things to crash and fall into then anything fun to do.

Even if no one wanted to add some of the original stages, they should have at least added some of the original vehicles. Nothing has come back, every car is new. Some are interesting, like the moon-buggy's, motorbikes, bug-bug, and a range of other vehicles, but there's no way to enjoy testing them because you cant control any of them. The speed of the cars is boringly slow! There is a code to make them faster, but that only results in worse control of the vehicles. The worst control is when trying to control your vehicles upgrade... You find things on the track that transform your vehicle into some other modified craft. Most of them change into a "Back To The Future II" style Sky-way-Flier. It looks cool at first, but you have no control over it. Also the spaceship from the original is no where to be seen.

There is some new weaponry, like a flame thrower, but opponents seem to now drive shielded vehicles and it now takes 100 times longer to destroy someone. Also, the rockets and pink projectile things are about all that's found in most levels, there is a few new things like specials being easy to find but what happened to the mini-gun? It seems to have almost completely disappeared and it's annoying looking for weapons inside buildings when you cant control a vehicle to get in there quick enough.

Even with codes, this game was still no fun. You need the invincibility code, but some of the codes like Monster Truck Wheels sounds like fun, but it's nothing to brag about, you just keep slipping around with no control as usual.

Overall, stick with Vigilante 8. Don't bother with this sequel. It's a downgrade from the 1st. On one player anyway, I haven't tried the multiplayer, but take my advice if you intend to play one player. It's not worth it. It's all graphics and no fun.