Updated review- March 20, 2007

I was completely wrong about Metal Gear Solid.  I've really grown to change my mind about the negative thoughts I once had and NOW I think Metal Gear Solid deserves 5 stars (4.5 to be exact).  I especially grew to appreciate the main purpose of the game which is, as many have already mentioned, being encouraged to AVOID the guards that appear on your radar.  The idea of the game is to find ways to avoid enemies- not just go in and attempt to either shoot or break their necks.  No wonder I originally gave the game a low rating.  I went in expecting to kill everything that walked in my way!  The gameplay is a radically different approach from anything I've ever experienced before.

I originally said Metal Gear Solid was one of those games I respect more than I enjoy. I said this because so much thought and energy went into the storyline and voice acting, that I felt the game deserved to be respected, and Konami deserved credit for making it.

However, playing the game today for the first time in months, I don't know what happened. When I hit the triangle button to put myself in first-person mode, and looked across the hallway to see if a guard happened to be standing there (or walking towards me) I got caught up in the excitement and the quiet atmosphere of trying to find a way around him. It was addicting. I finally figured out how to break their necks and that was a lot of fun, too. The boss fights are actually the very best thing about Metal Gear Solid.  Every single one of them is fun, not to mention they all require you to figure out the best way to defeat them using your rather large selection of guns and figuring out which gun is the correct one. I love fighting that ninja without using weapons and hearing him speak between the action segments.  Hearing enemies talk while you're fighting them makes you want to kick their butts even MORE!

I also love when everything is nice and quiet, and then you accidentally walk right by a guard.  When this happens, a loud sound effect comes in that gives off a feeling of "Oops, my bad!" because now the guard is chasing you around.  You now have to run for your life.  I didn't realize last year that this is actually a lot of fun. This IS a really good game. I'm sorry for saying it was average last year. Sometimes I need to actually PLAY a game before speaking my mind.

Metal Gear Solid is the revolutionary Playstation game that showed the world a new, life-like way to play video games in the late 90's.  The influence this game had on the future of video gaming is simply astounding.  Metal Gear Solid showed how you can take stealth fighting and wrap a gigantic, memorable story around it.  While I'm not a big fan of lengthy twists and turns in video game storylines, I will give Konami a lot of respect for putting an *incredible* amount of time and effort into the game, and in the process, having the Metal Gear Solid series continue to do well on the Playstation 2, and soon, Playstation 3.

I especially like the quiet atmosphere while you try finding ways to walk around guards.  It comes off like you're watching a movie instead of playing a video game, or, to put it another way, you're "playing" a movie.  Not many people can create an atmosphere quite like this.  Good job Konami.

Sometimes the guards aren't as intelligent as you'd like them to be (you can actually walk into an elevator and they will walk right by, without noticing you) and apparently none of them can see you if you're standing only a couple feet away, but you know, these problems are actually pretty nice because it allows gamers to finish Metal Gear Solid without any major difficulty problems.  I can only imagine how hard the game would be if guards were extremely observant all the time.

I still have a problem with the overall darkness of the game, though.  More often than not, an important health or ammo pack is located in a hidden dark area, like near a corner, behind a crate or somewhere you can't see.  It's really not a big deal, though.  Just remind yourself to always check every dark area you come across.  If you're still having trouble finding items, just press the triangle button to put yourself in first-person mode, and hit the left or right buttons on the directional pad to scan around.  This works really well.  In fact, the whole first-person camera angle was a great idea from Konami.

Even though 20 minutes of cutscenes and conversations isn't really my thing, at least you are given the option to skip through them if you want (by pressing any one of the four main buttons, plus the Start button).  I hate when game companies FORCE you to watch them.  I don't think the storyline is bad in any shape or form.  It's actually decent.  You see, my whole life I've had a belief that a video game should be more about actually "playing a game" and less time should be devoted to storyline segments (I'll make an exception for RPGs).  The storyline in Metal Gear Solid is so big and lengthy that if you were to sit there and listen to the whole thing you would be sitting there for HOURS.  Honestly, Metal Gear Solid focuses more on storyline than actual gameplay.

With changing times and technology, people began to prefer the realistic aspects of video gaming.  Metal Gear Solid will go down as one of the originators.

I DO have one complaint- there doesn't seem to be an option for you to lock-on to your target, so YOU are forced to find and face the target.  For example, if a guard is located south/east of you, you have to actually use the directional pad to face south/east and THEN you can shoot him.  You have to face him directly or he'll continue shooting at you until you're dead.  This can be a pain because turning correctly is a bit of a challenge.  This could have been fixed with one simple "lock-on nearest target" feature.

Sure, you have guns that can zoom in on a target, but to use THESE guns you have to get into a special position (which changes the angle of the camera).  By the time you get into that position the guard will have already killed you because it takes a few seconds to get into that position, and believe me, you don't have a SECOND to waste once a guard spots you.  I want a gun that features a QUICK lock-on target (such as a gun with high amounts of firepower and frequently-available ammo packs).  That way it won't feel hopeless when a million guards are after me.

Besides a bit of overall darkness, a lengthy storyline and sometimes unfair situations regarding aiming and shooting, I have no other problems with the game.  These are really minor problems and it's easy for me to look past them.  A game that I SHOULD have given more attention to before attempting to give a final verdict.  Metal Gear Solid is a classic game.  It just took me a while to see that.