When I first got this game, I found it to be boring not too soon after getting it. When I play it today, I still think it's boring! WWF War Zone is the first real WWF wrestling game to be released on the Playstation. I don't really consider the In Your House game to be wrestling wise, but more Mortal Kombat like.

War Zone is based off the WWF roster from late 1997 to early 1998, featuring only the most popular stars in the game . Among the wrestlers in this game, you can choose to play as Stone Cold Steve Austin, Shawn Michaels, Bret Hart, The Undertaker, The Rock, Triple H, Mankind, Goldust, Owen Hart, Ahmed Johnson, Farrooq, British Bulldog, Ken Shamrock, and The Headbangers.

The opening of the game is cool, as you're given a Raw like intro that used to open Monday Night Raw back in the mid to late 90s. From there on, you're taken to the menu screen that's in the form of an elevator. In the menu you can look at the wrestlers' biographies that let you listen to their theme and see their attires they wear in the game. There's also a Training mode on the menu that lets you pick a wrestler and learn how to perform their moves before you go into the game.

Once you enter the game, you can either play Exhibition matches to get adjusted to everything or go straight to Challenge Mode. Among the match types available are Singles, Tag Team, Tornado Tag Team, Hardcore, or Steel Cage. The Steel Cage match is probably the most frustrating match to play. When you climb the cage, I didn't know what button to push to climb down. I pushed down but I just ended up climbing back down to the ring. I lost most of the Cage matches.

Challenge Mode involves you choosing a superstar to play as and guide them to the World Championship. Unfortunately this was a boring and irritating mode to play. Once you play one match, you've played them all. You have to fight the same opponents at least 4 or 5 times before you advance to newer ones. As you progress through, you'll be met by a woman in a limo in the parking lot who will either show interest you for winning a match or insult you for losing a match. Oh yeah, that's another thing. If you lose 1 or 2 matches, you're automatically sent back to the beginning and have to start over from match 1 to go up. It ultimately screws you over and you're forced to play a lot of the same boring matches again.

Overall: I found War Zone boring then and I find it boring now. In my opinion In Your House is more fun to play than this. Even the sequel game to War Zone, Attitude, is more fun to play than War Zone. So if you don't want to be bored, skip War Zone and buy In Your House or Attitude instead