Midway, in an-all out effort to publish as many fighting games as humanly possible has given the world Mortal Kombat Gold, an "update" to  the mildly popular MK4 seen in arcades everywhere a couple of years  ago.
To warrant this title's port to the DC, Midway included some  "new" characters.  Cyrax, Mileena, Kitana, Baraka and Kung Lao  are all standing by to be beheaded at your leisure.  I'll admit, it was fun  to play as my old favorite Baraka, but I found his return to be a bit  lackluster.
None of the fatalities you'll see from the new guys are  original, all are merely 3D updates of MK2 and MK3.  I found Cyrax's  "blowing up the world" move terribly lame, as will you.  And  suprisingly, Baraka's victims don't bleed when he impales them.  Otherwise,  you'll find all of the characters present in the home games from last year,  including the console-only Goro.  Also, savvy players can unlock Noob  Saibot and Sektor, via secret codes (don't tell).
Let's get one thing  straight.  Graphic-wise, this game mirrors the arcade perfectly.  That's  one smooth box of chips Sega's got.  The character models are back to the  3,000-polygon count (up from the PS and N64's dozen or so polygons per  fighter) and the colors are bright and vibrant, with no pixelization.  However, there's a few oddball things that stand out.  For example, for all  of its 22nd-century power, the Dreamcast can't deliver shadows that don't  look like bouncing boxes strung together?  I don't think so, Midway.  Plus,  you'll see several of the same animations again and again and  again.
Gameplay also mirrors the previous home releases.  Jump, combo,  special move, jump, combo fatality.  The AI isn't particularly bright,  especially on the stages where rocks and other debris litter the ground.
Sound-wise, the game is adequate.  The new characters use recycled  sounds from old MK games, as do the new stages (also taken from old  games.)
All in all, if you haven't played MK4, and you have a Dreamcast,  you may enjoy this title.  The action is swift and pretty, and there's lots  of fun blood and mutilations (parents beware.) Otherwise, this title is old  news that could have benefitted from a little more development time.