I'm a huge Final Fantasy guy, but for me, 8 is just very close to trash.  I tried to play it right when it came out but I couldn't stand it right from the get go so I quit early.  I tried to play it again a few years ago and the same exact thing happened.  Finally a little while ago, I forced myself through it. No exaggeration.

So I started the game for the third time thinking, hey maybe it just takes time to catch on.  But no, I never really became addicted to the gameplay as I usually do in FF games.  The only way to get stronger is to find monsters with different spells and steal their spells for your attributes, which is fine and all, but it got extremely annoying having to do that until you reach 100 and for each character! It doesn't sound necessary but trust that's the only way to get stronger because as your level goes up, so do monster levels, so yes there's no point in even leveling up. Really stupid in my opinion, but it's a different type of thing that I think some people actually did like.  Not me. Every other FF was great as they were because they did not deviate the gameplay to this extent.

For every thing else, the story was a definite plunge from 7.  FF7 blew everyone away and when this cam out, the characters were ok, but the story was pretty lame, but not too, too terrible and the music was forgettable.  The environments were about matched with that of 7, but less enjoyable. So overall, this is not a great game.

I feel like this game is extremely overrated, getting so much positive feed back, but for what? My expectations were much higher after being so impressed by 7.  Maybe the bar was just set too high.  Maybe Square needed a break.  Then again, there are obviously people who love this style of gameplay, which gives them a much more different gaming experience.  Don't get me wrong, it's not the worst game ever, but it's just not the same Final Fantasy experience everyone loves.

So bottom line, if you're new to final fantasy and haven't played this yet, I would say consider a different FF game.  But give it a chance if you're not that picky with RPGs.  Just don't expect much.