Final Fantasy 7 and 9 are wonderful examples of how an essentially linear game can be manipulated and changed into something epic and enthralling, thanks to excellent characterisation and plot. Final Fantasy 8 (and, oddly enough, FF 10) are wonderful examples of how to bore people silly while forcing them to sit through some nice-looking battles.
For those gamers who, like me, need to like a character in order to fully appreciate the game's plot, let me say this: Squall is a moody, horrible, angst-ridden Phallocrat. His supporting cast are forgettable, with the exceptions of the consummately annoying Zell Dincht and the ridiculously feeble Rinoa Heartilly. The characters in FF 8 have none of the appeal of Cloud et al from FF 7, or Zidane and the lovable half-breeds from FF 9.
For gamers who don't consider this to be so important, FF 8 still manages to nicely ruin the Final Fantasy reputation by being one of the most boring and unrewarding games in the series. Battles are innumerable and completely random, and fall into 2 categories: extremely easy and unfairly difficult. Case in point; you face Seifer's two main flunkies early on in the game, by which stage your levels are too high to build up quickly on the feeble monsters available in the college & the surrounding areas, and too low to beat these henchmen without massive amounts of luck. The result? You end up running about doing frustrating battle with low-level wildebeests for hours, and the game becomes very, very boring.
The graphics are shamefully poorly-thought out. The pre-rendered backdrops for some of the major levels (Balamb Garden, Edea's House) are bland, and have none of the charm of the cityscapes of FF 7 or the magical countryside vistas of FF 9. The character models are far too complex, and look pixellated and rough at almost all angles. Polygon pop-up didn't die out with the Sega Saturn; it's alive and well and working for Squaresoft. The pre-renders, however, are amazing, approaching the quality of early PS 2 titles in their scale and realism.
The sound is run-of-the-mill poor PlayStation fare, but the music is decent enough. Better, too, is the Magic system, where, instead of spending hours confusing yourself with Materia, you now Junction Elementals and spells. Sadly, the game relies less on Magic and more on difficult Limit Break techniques and expensive items, so this really isn't a huge plus until late in the game.
All in all, FF 8 is a VERY disappointing game, lacking the freedom of exploration of FF 7 and 9. It's a game on wheels, which isn't a bad thing in itself, but when the plot and characters are so forgettable, it becomes a major problem. Steer clear.