Well, I wish I could play some of these levels! Sometimes, that's made impossible because they're so dark. I wish it would save my game, too, but it never has. There are patches available for bigger mistakes on their site. I would give anything not to watch those grating cutscenes again and again. The voices are all quite annoying and stilted, though you get the sense the Eidos guys thought the old man at the beginning might have been - he gets tiresome immediately (my child this, my child that, this is how you jump -WAIT!- this is how you jump). Lara is still a bimbo character and it's insulting to both genders, a cynical view of the audience (I wish she would stop breathing heavily!). The controls are difficult. The puzzle elements are still worthwhile, though they are a poor man's Zelda. The 16 year-old Lara was unnecessary, when she gets her backpack we're supposed to care. The likelyhood of her and the old man being in these Cambodian ruins in the daytime and running through it like a preschool adventure playset is small. They seem to toss old TR elements like climbing vines and throwing levers in all the wrong places, these elements are repeated, and there seems to be little real joy in all of it, like they toss the elements out until the game ends. The level designs are unlogical, they detract from the realism that the games used to have and added so much to it. That's why you are bothered when you die from a giant spinning spike wheel that magically floats, not because it's hard, but because you just don't believe things like that are there, it's as though the game breaks it's own rules. I feel like the levels could all have gone a lot further if they just did some heavy internet research on the areas available to play (Egypt has stars and spikes?). Overall, I feel this game was well worth my [money], but the series needs to improve or it will surely die. Undoubtedly, the first Two TR games were the best, they need to return to that, these new games feel like a...commercial spectacle. What I enjoy most about the series is the realism that there can sometimes be, and the puzzles, but mostly the scenery and locales, the action is just the backdrop to me. Buy the first 2 games before thinking about getting this.