This is one of 530 reviews so if you read this I consider myself lucky.  Alright lets get to it.  First off, it was a nice idea.  Finally a game that focused on loving and caring, without being sexual, and helping your fellow man.  However I think that this is all they focused on in production.  The game, and this is sad for a Final Fantasy, is bad.  I'm sorry but it reeks.  SquareSoft is running out of orginal ideas and it is showing.  Although, the ideas were innovative.  Enemies that level up with your characters.  Never will your characters be gods over an enemy.  Unless it's a boss.  For some odd reason boss levels are limited.  So a player can beef up their characters all they want and then beat the messout of the boss without worry.  The Guardian Forces, while still a nice idea, were poorly planned.  A GF is like a Pokemon (in a sick sadistic way).  It gains levels with your character and through it your character can gain abilities.  Problem is GFs can quickly make their 'host' gods very quickly.  At level 15 my main character's strength was through the roof because not only did he have Ifirt equipped but all his strength increases too.  He could cut down enemies in one blow!  While that's nice it takes away from the difficulty of the game.  The battle system is a nightmare too.  If I have to push buttons to get more damage done, then why don't you just program the game to register the extra damage.  Granted this only applies to Squall but it gets very annoying to have to mash buttons to get a character's strength up.  I hated it in Super Mario RPG and I hate it in this game.  The GF spells have to be pumped up if you want it to do any serious damage.  What happened to watching the nice animations and appreciating the work of the artists who designed them.  The story line is my next pet peeve.  The strength of an RPG comes from the story not the gameplay.  The story in this game is shoddy.  Picture a writer with the exact opposite abilities of John Grisham or Micheal Crichton.  It is that bad.  Not only do you have to mash buttons in the battles but you have to mash buttons to get past the annoying long dialouge exchanges (that seem to be written by a pre-schooler with help from their friends).  It is worse than Parasite Eve 2's story.  At least they tried.  I'm done with my tirade now.  You want the truth, this game is not worth [price], it isn't even worth the rental.  Go to a friend who owns this poor excuse for a game and play it there or borrow it.  For those who saw the Charlie's Angels movie.  This is the game the two (since when is it two player) kids are playing when Barrymore pays them a visit.