Let's get one thing clear: Diablo II is nowhere near as good as Diablo 1. There are more reasons for this than I can remember, but I'll try to list as many of them as possible.
First off, there's no way to save your progress through the game. All that you can do is save your character. When you reload the game, all of the bad guys are back. This gets EXTREMELY aggravating.
Second, there's just too much stuff! Remember in Diablo 1, where there were a dozen kinds of swords and like a hundred different kinds of armor, not counting the two billion magical prefixes and suffixes and all of the Unique items? Well, that's ten times as bad in D2. There's twice as many different categories of items (belts? what the...?), and there are twice as many items in each category. It doesn't stop there, either: it is now possible for nonmagic items to have prefixes as well, and many of those prefixes mean the same freaking thing! A belt can be "poorly made," "low quality," "slightly lower quality," "chipped," "cracked," "rusty," "damaged," "even more damaged," blah blah blah blah blah umpteen et cetera, and it contributes absolutely JACK FREAKING SQUAT to gameplay! Diablo 1 had 2 different potion strengths: Partial and Full, and that was all you needed, but D2 saw fit to create five different potion strengths. You get the idea.
Third, the outdoor areas are WAAY too freaking big. Even with Automap turned on, it's impossible to tell whether or not you've explored an outdoor area fully.
Fourth, the new spellcasting system just doesn't make the slightest bit of sense. A Barbarian at a given level will have just as many magical abilities, AND be just as good at casting them, as a Sorceress on the same level! And how are these magical abilities acquired? Does your character learn spells by reading spellbooks, like in Diablo 1? No, they learn spells by killing things. Yup, you just go out and kill monsters, and you suddenly know how to cast fireballs. WHAT THE HECK KIND OF SENSE DOES THAT MAKE?!?
Fifth, character classes have no maximum stats. This SEVERELY WEAKENS the distinctions between the character classes, and for those hackers out there, it makes it impossible to have a "maxed-out" character.
Sixth, there's too much stuff! I know I've mentioned this before, but it's just wrong that you could pick up every item in the whole game and still only see a tenth of all the different combinations of non-magical items.
Seventh, there's no more Apocalypse spell. Apocalypse was a cool spell that should not have been removed.
D2 does have a few good ideas, though. Gems are very cool, but the fact that they come in five or six different quality levels, plus the fact that items can have widely varying numbers of sockets for them, only worsens the "too much stuff" problem. The Horadric Cube is an awesome idea, because it allows you to do really fun things. You put random things into it, and if you're lucky, they'll combine into something new! You can take 3 gems of a given type and quality, and the Cube will compress them into one gem of the next highest quality. Combine 2 packs of crossbow bolts to get one pack of arrows, or 2 packs of arrows for one pack of bolts. No one but Blizzard knows all of the possibilities. I also love the addition of "set" items, or in other words, unique items that power each other up as you find more from each set. Unfortunately, it is, for all practical purposes, impossible to find all of the items in any one set, leading to hours upon hours of frustrated searching. Let's see, I mentioned Gems, the Horadric Cube, set items... were there any other positive additions to D2? I can't remember any more...
Diablo 2 can be fun and playable in its own way, but compared to Diablo 1, it's just horrible. There were too many bad ideas, and too many good ideas that were badly implemented. Don't play this game unless you've gotten bored with Diablo 1.