This is it!  Is this what the hype was all about? Totally disappointed with this game. Again, a game that took 3 years to develop isn't a guarantee that it'll be good (Daikatana anyone?). Diablo 2 is just all hot air. Lets start with the bugs. First of, let's start with the technical goof ups. The  game had problems with some CD drives. It takes me 3 to 5 tries just to  have my Creative DVD recognize the CD. This is a major bug. Second, the CD  had problems ejecting from my drive, thanks to the patch they released  v. 1.02, it still didn't fix it. Thanks for nothing Blizzard. Third, the game  won't run on my GeforceDDR under Direct 3D. So now, Im running the game  using DirectDraw from my GeforceDDR. I ran the game using 3dfx glide and  the graphics were so washed out and hazy. What do you expect from glide?  Now let's go with the gameplay. It is absolutely similar with the first  Diablo. Sure they upgraded the graphics and all, but gameplay is still the  same old Diablo. The game comes in 3 CDs. The first CD will take you only  about 4 hours to finish it because the monsters are just too dumb and too  easy to beat. You'll have the case of BOREDOM by the time you finish CD1.  As you progress deeper into the game, you start to realize that the  challenge becomes more of simply just finishing it because you paid [good money]  for it rather than seeing the end of the game. Motivation factor is zero.  There were a lot of new items and weapons not found in the old Diablo but  new items and new weapons just isn't enough to save this game. Maps are 3  times bigger than the old Diablo. Other than that, this game is just a  waste of time because it runs and feels like the old Diablo which is  already a tired old engine to spend your gaming hours on. I enjoyed playing  Nox more than Diablo II. Newcomers in the Diablo world will feel just dandy  with this game. Old Diablo players will go ho-hum with this one. My take on  this game, wait for the retailers to put it on the bargain shelves.