Having played the Twisted Metal series for a few years now, I can honestly say that Twisted Metal III, while having an initial gleam at first play, it wears itself out fairly quickly. The gleam I'm speaking of is the slick graphics and the incredibly different game play. It tries to be something new, which it is, but it improves in all the wrong ways.

Allow me to explain :

Weapons Inventory. Instead of a max capacity of the total number of weapons in your inventory, you are limited to how many of each weapon you can have. For example, I can pick up 10 homing missiles but no more. The rest of my inventory has to be stocked with other useless weapons like Speed Missiles (more on that in a bit). In previous TM installments, you could keep building your homing missile capacity, and carry only those, as long as you didn't exceed the max capacity. Annoying.

New Weapons. Okay, so initially I thought the (((Rain Missile))) was the best thing since sliced bread. But really, the rain missile doesn't do very much apart from visual appeal. The missile shoots into the air and you detonate it, and a ring of fire falls down like five mini-napalms. It doesn't do the damage the napalm does, but only allows the cars to drive through so they start on fire...at least until they turbo (stop-drop-and-roll in TM maneuvers) out of it 2 seconds later. Minimal damage done.

The introduction of the (((Speed missile))) was the worst mistake of the weapon category. It's a fast missile that has the strength of three machine gun bullets. If you can fire them fast, you can do some damage, but they're so useless during combat that it really doesn't even matter.

(((Remotes))) are plenty but do much less damage than in TM2. (((Freeze missiles))) (the left-right-up maneuver) do not hit enemies like they used to. It is much harder to freeze an enemy. This can be frustrating.

Enemies. New characters are added, some are great, some not so great. Your enemies now have the A.I. that allows them to steal items from in front of you. If they need health, they will race you for it and take the health. This is especially frustrating when you are fighting Minion and you have one shot left to kill him and he quickly finds full health. *Cue controller hitting floor*

The levels are not very large. Not much scenery and not much to discover. There's a few hidden places you can find to explore, but for the most part it's very limited.

All in all, TM3 falls flat. The previous installments are much better both in game-play value, and in overall playability.

If you can find this cheap, get it. Otherwise pass it up.