As a big fan of the TV show, I was really looking forward to the home version, and undoubtedly so were thousands of other fans.  Unfortunately, the folks at Disney and Jellyvision were clearly aware of that, and the  rush was obviously on to get this game to market as soon as possible,  before the craze could die down.  The result is a game that doesn't come  close to matching either the TV show or Jellyvision's previous  efforts.
The most obvious problem is the limited number of questions.  This problem is greatly compounded by the fact that the game doesn't seem  to make note of which questions have already been asked--a simply  inexcusable error, which results in repeated questions after only a few  games.
The box proudly touts the fact that a "virtual Regis"  hosts the game; and sure enough, he's there.  But his involvement in the  project was clearly limited; he doesn't read any of the questions, only  providing the pre- and post-question patter.  That's understandable, given  the amount of money that Regis would have probably demanded for such a  large recording job; but it does greatly diminish the illusion of being on  the show.
The game's incorrect pacing destroys the rest of that illusion.  Instead of encouraging the player to take his/her time as the show does, a  30-second clock is inexplicably added.  And while the game rushes you  through the questions themselves, it needlessly slows down between them.  Since the designers couldn't have Regis read the questions, they clearly  wanted to maximize his involvement between questions; so the game stops  after every question while Regis delivers one of a set of long canned  remarks.  This is tolerable later in the game, but it comes across as  simply silly during the first few easy questions that the TV show would  blast through in short order.
As others have pointed out, even the  keyboard commands have problems.  Assigning a lifeline to the same key as  an answer choice is begging for mistakes; and the lack of an "Is that  your final answer?" question in most cases further increases the  possibility of errors, as well as erasing the remainder of the feel of  being on the show.
The game does have its moments; if multiple people are  playing, a clever implementation of the fastest-finger round decides who  gets to sit in the hot seat.  But frankly, I can't imagine playing this as  a multi-player game anyway; the show's format simply isn't suited to be a  party game, and this home version simply isn't exciting enough to  watch.
In summary, the Millionaire computer game has its (brief) moments,  but simply isn't worth even the low price Disney is asking for it.  It's  unfortunate that Disney and Jellyvision chose to put their names--and the  show's reputation--on such a disappointing effort.