If you're a true Bubsy fan, you would know immediately that the title of my review is actually a quote from the very first thing Bubsy says in his first game.  How prophetic.

Now, let me say that I loathe hyperbole.  Bubsy 3D is not the worst game ever made, and believe me, I have played most of them.  Despite what the fifteen-year-old reviewers on Amazon would have you believe, Bubsy 3D actually won some acclaim when it was released, and retained what was, for the time, the 3D platforming status quo.  The problem with the status quo back then was that there wasn't one, and any given game might have any old control scheme, many of which didn't make any sense.  Bubsy 3D suffered from exactly that, among other things; namely, the overly simplistic environments and the sketchy depth perception.

And oh yeah, it suffered from one more thing: Super Mario 64 had completely blown the lid off of everyone's expectations.  Suddenly, simply average platformers made only months before suddenly looked like clunky, outdated dinosaurs.

And there was left poor old Bubsy.  The controls for the game are clunky at best, that much is certain, and it takes a while to learn his ropes.  His jumping mechanics are very different; the developers solved the depth-perception problem (partially, anyway) by having the camera switch to an overhead view whenever he jumps, giving the player overly precise control over where he lands, a la Jumping Flash.  Unfortunately, he takes so long to get a running start, he will probably slide right off of that platform you just landed on so precisely.  In fact, you will get to know the jumping controls extremely well, because you are going to fall off of that platform quite a bit.

One thing that still surprises me to this day, though, is the sharpness of the game's resolution.  No, there aren't hardly any textures to be found, as Bubsy's 3D world consists of purely colored geometric shapes, but I'll be darned if there isn't hardly a jaggy edge to them.  The characters and their expressions, as well as their animations, are actually really well defined, and the 2D sprites fail to pixelate.  Its just too bad that they all live in a world created by the God of Playskool.

Bubsy 3D is not one of the worst games ever made.  It is simply one of the most unfortunate, a rushed product shoved to the front lines to catch as much residual success off of its competitors as it could.  To understand that, you had to have been there in 1996, when platformers were anybody's game.  When Mario grew up he changed all that, and invited us along for his joyous adventure, from which we never looked back.

Poor Bubsy.