When I think of the N64, I think about great games and memories. Games like Golden-Eye 64, The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time, Super Mario 64, and Banjo- Kazooie. Memories like getting my fore-head shot by my brother, grabbing my 120th power star, and meeting Princess Zelda for the first time.

Donkey Kong 64 doesn't come up in any of these if you haven't noticed by now, and for good reason. It's slow, pokey, and not really all that fun. Which is really a problem after the success of the Donkey Kong Country trilogy.

THE GRAPHICS: Donkey Kong 64 seems to take the graphics roll from Super Mario 64, in that the characters are a little on the blocky side, but their really not all bad. I've only come across a few complaints which is demonstrated in the following description: In one area, the room has a large wooden treasure chest with a switch of the character's face on it. Sounds fine right? Wrong, the switch attached to the chest is made from a vent in one of the previous areas. A metal switch attached to a wooden chest. Sheer laziness. VERDICT:*** 3/5

THE STORY: Quite simple really, Donkey's horde of bananas have been stolen once again by King K. Rool, ruler of the Kremling reptiles. He's also done the liberty of imprisoning all of the other Kongs in cells mapped around the game. The game introduces many new character like Lanky Kong and the banana fairies, along with some pretty whacked up levels. It's not really all that original, but it works.
THE VERDICT: *** 3/5

THE GAME-PLAY: This is where Donkey Kong 64 kills, and not in the good way. The game rips from the popular "grab the golden item to proceed to more levels" style originated by Super Mario 64 and Banjo-Kazooie. Now, that would be fine since the genre has pretty much held water for years, but DK64 has you "power-walking" your way through each task, some of which are dragged on already.

 It takes me about 7 minutes just trying to go to the level I choose (except the first level). The game is loaded with long hallways, ledges you need to slowly climb, and slow frame-rate issues at times. If Rare had upped the speed to about 2.33 times faster, I probably wouldn't have constantly been yelled at to leave my younger brother's room so he could sleep. Oh yeah, and I got a serious sore thumb from holding the joystick in the same direction. This game ruins hands, and sleepy little brothers. THE VERDICT: * 1/5

THE MUSIC: The game ranges from toy factories, jungles, pyramids and the like, so you can imagine a wide arrange of tunes to come across. Some of the music is pretty catchy, but I didn't find myself dazzled by any means. I found myself humming 2 or 3 songs, but that was it, none of which you'll be hearing very often. The sound-effects are fitting and pretty original. Thanks to this game every time I see an orange, I immediately think of the sound the orange grenades make in this game. Pretty funny right? VERDICT: *** 3/5

OVERALL: DK64 had a lot of hype, and it's a shame it didn't turn out since it was made by the same guys behind the Donkey Kong County, Battletoads, and Jet Force Gemini series, which were excellent gems. I played this game as a kid years ago and completed everything in the game, I really must have exaggerated greatly how fun it was back then, because I can't seem to have any courage to attempt getting everything in just level 4. While the music is descent, the graphics okay and the story shallowly good, none of those elements are what make you play a game. You play to have fun, to enjoy the universe of the characters, and to enhance you skills. I'd be able to accomplish all those things twice as much just eating a banana and watching my dad trim his nails than playing Donkey Kong 64.

 OOOOH BANANA.

OVERALL VERDICT: ** 2/5