As a fan of the X-Com games and Shadow Watch, I was really looking forward to this game.  Based on the Editorial Reviews on this site, I was expecting somethiing in a similar vein.
Unfortunately, there are some subtle  problems with this game that make it vastly inferior to the previously  mentioned titles, and cause the game play to be rather slow and  frustrating.
Problems with the tactical level:
#1.  Extremely long  fights:  Most of the weapons in this game are frustratingly innacurate and  don't do much damage.  As a result, fights go on and on and on and on and  on and . . well, you get the idea.  In X-Com and Shadow Watch, fire fights  tend to be relatively quick and decisive.  If a bad guy steps out in front  of you without cover, he goes down.  In this game though, he can stand  right in front of you at a range of three or four spaces and it will still  take a few turns to kill him.  You shoot and miss, and shoot and miss and  so on.  And then when you finally do hit the guy, it takes five or six  shots to take him down. Your mouse hand will get sore from all the point  and clicking. Both the accuracy and the lethality of all the weapons in the  game should be about doubled or trippled, which would lead to shorter, more  decisive engagements. 2.  Computer controlled characters have a huge  advantage in accuracy:  This is a weird glitch that becomes really obvious  from about the second fight onwards.  All computer controlled units are  roughly two to three times as accurate as your (supposedly elite) mercenary  units.  What does this mean? A couple of examples: a.)  One of your  mercenaries (with a high accuracy rating) is lying on the ground, firing at  an opponent lying on the ground, with no intervening cover.  The computer  controlled character will hit you about four times for every time you hit  him. b. You have a unit which has carfully positioned itself crouching  behind a tree for cover, shooting at a computer unit standing in the open.  You will hit each other with about the same frequency.
While over all  game balance is preserved by the fact that your mercs can just take so damn  much damage, it still makes game play awefully frustrating.  Here you are,  knocking yourself out to find good covered positions to protect your guys,  and the computer still hits them easily, while you're missing its guys that  are out in the open. The problem becomes even more annoying once you start  training local militia to protect your villages.  Being computer  controlled, the local militia also benefit from this huge increase in  accuracy, which means that they completely outclass the mercenaries who  trained them.  Which makes you wonder why they needed your mercenaries to  come liberate them in the first place.
Problems with the Strategic  Level:
Unbalance Economy:  Simply put, the amount of money running around  in the game doesn't balance out against the cost of most items.  Local  Militia, for example, can be trained for $750, a sum so small by comparison  to what your mines are turning out that it doesn't even enter into your  strategic thinking.  Similarly, the rewards for completing quests in the  game are ludicrously small wnen compared to your income.  What do you say  to a major NPC who is trying to get you to do some major quest by offering  you 20K dollars.  "Hello, I make more than that in a single day of  mining.  Why should I bother?".  The numbers on a lot of this stuff  need to be adjusted. 2.  A preponderence of innefectual hand guns:  For  some reason, most of the mercs that you can afford at the start of the game  come equipped with hand guns rahter than assault rifles.  Excuse me?  A  professional merc who's going to airdrop into the middle of a civil war  with only a pistol?  This is particularly ludicrous when you realize how  innefectual handguns are in this game.  Even at close range, an NPC is  likely to die of old age long before you ever manage to finish him off with  a .38 revolver. Adding to this problem is the fact that you can't buy  rifles.  Oh sure, the nice mail order company that you do business with  will send you ammo, but not big guns, grenades, night vision goggles, or  any of the really cool stuff that you want to play with.  To get that  stuff, you have to ever so slowly find it off the bodies of dead enemies.  In the course of 15 hours of play, I managed to find only two rifles.  Unfortunately, they were of a calliber that I couldn't buy ammo for.  Arrg.  Why can't you just buy decent armaments in this game?
Overall, I would  have to encourage people to buy all the X-Com games and Shadow Watch before  buying this one.  And even then, I would replay the former titles again  before sending buying this one.  Firefights in Jagged Alliance are  needlessly long and indecisive, there is little variation between combat  locations and opponents, and there is a lot of built in frustration in the  fact that your units are so vastly inferior to those controlled by the  computer.  This is a game with a lot of subtle problems that should have  been caught in the beta testing.