This is a superb shooting game with lots of realism and strategy incoprorated. Graphics are great as is choice of team-mates and weaponary. I guess that it pretty realstic in a lot of ways as your team mates get in your way, and the terrorists are not as stupid as they are on some other games - they will shoot at you as soon as they see you. But there are times when you shoot at a terrorist and he doesn't die but shoots you instead. It seems to be a problem with the game. There are lots or really weird glitches too. You see dead terrorists levitating and half of them stuck through walls and their legs hanging down through the roof etc. I find it irritating that the designers take so much care to make tyres go down when you shoot them, and different sounds when you shoot a bed or a window, but then so little detail is given to other aspects such as the lights which don't go out if you shoot them. I have never seen lights like that. "Goldeneye" has lights that pop so why doesn't this? A lot of this game is just too difficult to win at. In addition, you get a mission such as the one at the datcha where you must avoid detection -  this is really difficult. The idea is to plant a bug and a camera and leave as though you've never even been there. You can go round and shoot al the windows out and still complete the level...and no one will notice that there are windows missing, glass everywhere and bullet holes in the walls? My point is, if you are going to go for realism then go all the way, or not at all. My low rating for this game is due to the problems I have had playing it on the PC. I think it's a game with really great potential, but you end up waiting all the time while the computer makes grinding sounds which freeze your action, but while you are frozen it really impedes playability and you end up getting shot because you can't react. Unplayable due to this, and I have a powerful computer, so that's not the problem. This is overambitious for the PC market, and there are things that need rethinking to make it a better game.