Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire was released near the end of 1996 and was one of the first generation games for the N64. It's a decent Star Wars game overall with nagging issues that keep it from being one of the better games for the system.

Set after the events in the movie Star Wars V: The Empire Strikes Back but before the events in the movie Star Wars VI: Return of the Jedi (and also based on the book of the same name), you set out to help Luke Skywalker and rescue Princess Leia from the hands of Prince Xizor. Choose from 3 difficulty levels and battle through 9 levels set in planets that are part of the Star Wars universe; battling enemies and making your way around as you would in a platform game.

The PROS: Well, the overall presentation is good enough to make you feel you're in the Star Wars universe as the sound effects and music are what you expect to hear in Star Wars games. Even though the game has 9 levels, they are long levels so you won't be cruising through so easily.

The CONS: Unfortunately, this is not one of the better SW games available for the N64 for several reasons. This game was part of the first generation of games for the N64 and it shows. The graphics did not age so well and back in 1996 , they were horrible. Super Mario 64 was a launch title and it had way better graphics. Here, the game gets choppy when there's a lot of action, the frame rate dips every so often and there is lots of "pop up" scenery and dense fog (to cover up areas that don't have any animation.) The controls are no better than the ones in the PS title "Tomb Raider". Your character controls like a robot, aiming is a chore to do and the game has horrible collision detection. Add in the platform elements where you have to jump in certain areas and either you end up dying or trying to jump again because the jump button doesn't respond until a full second AFTER you press it. On top of all that, the game's difficulty is pretty unforgiving. Even if you set in on "easy", the enemies are still pretty tough and sometimes you have no idea if your weapons have an effect on whoever you are shooting at.

Considering that the first level is easily the best of the game altogether, you're pretty much hyped and can't wait to see the rest of the game. Unfortunately, when you do, you realize that the game falls flat on its face. Star Wars: SotE had a lot of potential. It's a Star Wars game and gives you the feeling that you're part of the awesome story it conveys. But that feeling goes away fast as the crappy graphics, robot like controls, bad platform elements and near impossible difficulty that this game presents keeps it from being the kind of game it could have been. Only the die hard Star Wars fans would pick this up. For everyone else, be warned as other Star Wars games released for the N64 are much, much better than this somewhat playable effort.