For the past few months I'd been picking up old N64 games that I didn't get a chance to purchase during their initial release, and when I saw Shadows of the Empire I immediately grabbed it, being the big Star Wars fan that I am.
Shadows was one of the launch games for the N64, and while it might have been a decent game in its day, maybe even a good game (I can't, however, believe it was ever considered a great game), it hasn't aged well at all. To compare, I also recently grabbed Super Mario 64, the original launch game, and still found plenty of charm left in that old cartridge.
The graphics are a mixed bag. Our hero, Dash, is rendered rather nicely, with more polygons than one might expect. The levels, however, have ugly textures that will remind the player of early pseudo 3-D games like DOOM and Dark Forces. Hardly the graphical quality the N64 is capable of. Enemies such as the Stormtroopers and mercenaries are fuzzy with blurred details. However, the graphics on the flying missions and the speeder bike level are exceptional. With regards to sound, John Williams score has never failed before, and fortunately, the music combined with classic Star Wars sound effects is just what Star Wars fans want.
Where the game really fails is the gameplay. Shadows tries to include many different modes of play, and not all of them work. The snow speeder level is a classic, as it inspired the game Rogue Squadron; the speeder bike chase is rather cool, as is the fight with Boba Fett. However, in other areas of the game, your craft is stationary and all you are required to do is shoot. It's not much different from the Super Nintendo Star Wars games, and the simplistic gameplay can only entertain for so long. Then there is the first-person levels, which unfortunately make up the bulk of the game. Though the game has multiple view modes, Dash is easiest to control in the first-person mode, but the player won't even see the tip of Dash's gun, as is customary with all shooters. There is no target reticle, making aiming irratic. The levels are too big and empty, and are too straightforward. It's a simple matter to walk from point A to point B, with few surprises. You'll find yourself rushing through most of the game to get to the better levels, but unfortunately they're few and far in between.
If you're a Star Wars fan, there's still enough here to warrant a purchase, but mostly it'll be for a piece of N64 Star Wars history. While I might have had different feelings about this game had I bought it at launch, I can't imagine feelings much more impressed by it. Shadows of the Empire is the most disappointing of all the N64 Star Wars games.