(This review was updated on July 10th, 2006)

I've changed my mind about Super Mario World and actually think it deserves 4 stars.  I was just in a bad mood when I originally gave the game a 2-star rating.  It turns out Super Mario World is not just a game you can enjoy growing up in the early 90's.  It actually has a lot of replay value and years later our children can enjoy Super Mario World the same way WE did.

I still stand by what I say in the original review: "The Donkey Kong Country series, for example, came along with a similar idea and made it more exciting IMO, so, if I were you I'd go with one of those games instead of Super Mario World.  For the most part the levels in the DKC series feel different from each other (plus, they feel more creative and memorable).  Unfortunately, many of the levels in Super Mario World are all basically the same and, as a result, I feel exhausted after playing the game for two hours.

To put it another way- in Super Mario World it feels like you're going through the levels simply to collect coins and extra lives.  In the Donkey Kong Country series, you pretty much do the same thing (except bananas instead of coins) but it seems like the DKC series offers more creativity in the level design, which allows you to look forward to each stage and think to yourself "I wonder what cool thing I get to do in THIS stage".  It's not like that in Super Mario World."

I still believe that, but I've recently come to change my mind a little and think that, even though most of the levels in Super Mario World feel the same, that's not necessarily a BAD thing.  I also don't think the graphics in SMW are as nice as many reviewers think.  They sort of look blocky but, to their credit, Nintendo games have always had plenty of pretty colors, which is a plus.

So go ahead and buy Super Mario World if you want to experience the joy of old-school Mario (the games MY generation grew up with).  After all, it's Mario and Mario games always have something decent going for them (except Mario Is Missing, but with time we've come to realize that game never even existed!)

Super Mario World is basically Super Mario Bros. 3 (but without all the cool Mario suits and less creative worlds).  I like in Super Mario Bros. 3 how you have water, desert, air, plant and ice worlds (in addition to more).  In Super Mario World you just have UNUSUAL worlds such as Chocolate Island and Forest of Illusion.  Those aren't as neat as the worlds in Super Mario Bros. 3.  Super Mario World should have been the best Mario game yet but Nintendo took a few steps back (but with a MONSTER like Super Mario Bros. 3 I guess it would have been difficult to make a better Mario game right after it).

Another problem in Super Mario World is that if you want to get a perfect score (96) you not only have to reach the goal in every single level, but you also have to find and grab a key in certain levels (but not all levels have keys).  This means you have to go through many levels a SECOND time.  It's sort of boring.  Once is enough.  The concept of collecting keys wasn't a good one.  I guess the good part is that if you are wearing a cape, you can quickly fly through the levels (except for water levels, and any level where the screen pushes you to the right) but that's not fun either because all you do is continue flying and pushing the back button to stay up high in the air until you reach the goal (or the key).  However, at the end of the day none of this is really enough to make the game bad in any way.  I just get tired of it.

Go ahead and get it.  Yes, it's a classic.