I am a huge fan of vampire fiction in any form and also enjoy a good RPG.  So I was ecstatic when I heard about Vampire being translated from the pen-and-paper sources to the computer.  And Vampire is an amazing looking  game that I really wanted to like.  Unfortunately some bad design choices  and poor features prevented it from happening.
I'll start with the good  points.  The graphics are stunningly amazing.  The animation of the  characters is fluid and weapons are superbly done.  The lighting greatly  enhances the dark and sinister atmosphere.  I kept going in many places  because I wanted to see what area I would visit next.  The camera control  is also very smooth and easy to manipulate with the mouse.  The gameplay is  actually fun for the first bit of the game while you are adventuring by  yourself and with one other party member.  The source material and the  manual add a lot to this game.  Wandering around towns and seeing people  milling about made it feel alive.  And it was always oh so fun to feed upon  someone to refill your blood level.
The RPG system is also great.  There  are several positive and detrimenatl traits for the characters.  A certain  level of blood must be maintained to use the disciplines (spells/skills)  and to keep your character from succombing to frenzy.  Experience points  can be distributed among such traits as strength, dexterity, intelligence,  willpower and several others.  Very nicely done indeed.
Here is where I  have to get in to the demerits of this game.  First off, the voice acting  is not very good; but it's not the worst I've heard either.  And the  sequences of dialogue are long and boring.  The characters simply stand in  place and wave their hands about.  NPC interaction is left to a few  choices which really have little baring on the outcome of the game.  Nothing as rich and detailed as Planescape: Torment.
The combat, while  fun and reminiscent of Diablo, only keeps its spark for the first part of  the game.  Most of it consists of clicking on an enemy and waiting until  you've hit them enough times for them to die.  A big flaw that becomes  noticable during the first few levels is that the enemies wait until you  are in range before they attack.  They will simply stand idle as you  slaughter others in the same room!  As the game progresses you will gain  party members, and will bemoan similarly incompetant AI.  I equipped one  with a bow and laughed in disbelief as he continuously fired in to a wall  when he should have moved a couple steps to the side before doing so.  Also, you can control the other members of your party in combat, but the  main character will stop fighting while you are doing so!  Aaahhhh!  Add to  this that you can go through entire areas and clean up with little to no  problem, but then come across certain areas that will be nigh impossible to  pass.  Both enemies and your fellow party members will get hung up on  walls, doors and other obstacles in the room.
And here we come to the  worst sin of the game, the save system.  Saving is automatically handled  when you transition between levels are areas.  The only other way to save  is to be in your haven or safe area.  One can get there by using the Walk  the Abyss discipline (aka spell/skill).  But it takes a while before you  have one of these in a given area.  So we are left hacking our way back  through areas and levels already completed.  I found myself abusing the  autosave feature by running back and forth between levels to save.  But  what if more than one person is playing the game as is the case on my  computer?  It's pretty much tough luck.  This is a computer game, not a  console.  The game should have been balanced so that players could save  anywhere at anytime.
The multiplayer sounds enticing with the ability for  one person to take control of the NPCs and monsters.  But if the gameplay  is similar to the single-player then I can't see it being much  better.
With great graphics, a rich source material and so much  potential.  It makes me sad to not be able to like this game.  This takes  me back to Revenant, another game with a lot of potential but came up  flacid.  Maybe the patches will fix the problems, I certainly hope so.  But  much has to be done for the AI to make this game worthy.