Every once in a while I experience a piece of entertainment that is *so* overrated it's hard to believe I'm even living on the same planet as those that actually believe this is supposed to be the best. The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is that very piece of overrated entertainment. Talk about a video game that not only doesn't live up to the hype (not even close) but it doesn't do a darn thing to impress me even *if* I were to ignore all the exaggerated hype. This is a serious letdown of a video game. But again, please understand I'm not from the same planet as those that enjoy this game. I care about gameplay and replay value more than anything else. Apparently most Zelda fans believe puzzle-based dungeons and soulless overworlds are what defines the Zelda series.

One thing that positively stinks is that the land of Hyrule, despite being presented as beautiful (and realistic- don't tell me Nintendo wasn't riding the 3D high in 1998 and going for realism here) it's basically a gigantic piece of nothingness. Simply a means of getting from one area to another. A large, colorless empty field that Link either runs or rides his horse across. Nothing magical, medieval or interesting about *any* of this. It feels too much like taking a typical walk across the field beside my house. Going into this game after a Link to the Past, you'll be scratching your head wondering what happened to the huge variety of overworld enemies, pretty and colorful environments and enticing obstacles. Remember all those trees, rocks, grass and water sections from Link to the Past? Remember how rich and vibrant they looked? Ha, nothing nearly as diverse is featured in this bland and inferior overworld. Oh sure the monsters come out at night (in predictable spots) but that's it. As far as I can see, only one monster actually comes out (named Stalchild). Terribly lacking. The trees are spaced apart in a way that feels lacking too.

The dungeons is where this game severely misses the mark to such an extent that it's almost unfathomable to believe Nintendo thought releasing the game the way it is was enough to be sufficient. Again, where ARE all the enemies? Why am I roaming through temple rooms that are way too big for their own good? Are high ceilings and deep pits supposed to justify the lack of enemies because the tradeoff is that it feels like I'm really inside a castle now? Give me a break guys. The rooms are so big they basically have no life whatever. Instead of being loaded with enemies around every corner, these castles are alarmingly empty, lifeless and unacceptable. But... that's apparently okay, because Ocarina of Time is the first 3D Zelda game so its legendary influence and innovation makes it leaps and bounds above the sequels, right? Not in my world baby. The games following Ocarina of Time perfected the Zelda formula way more effectively. Wind Waker and Skyward Sword leaves this dated mess in the dust.

While normally I don't care about graphics in a video game, you gotta admit that bright vibrant colors really make the epic heroic adventurous theme of the Zelda series more engrossing. This is just... gross. Only the realistic-looking (flawed) overworld is a sight to behold (which of course now looks significantly better in Twilight Princess). Clearly the effort involved in designing the dungeons isn't much to admire. I don't really mind the occasional choppiness concerning the edges of buildings, trees or other objects that are all part of the Nintendo 64's datedness. Sometimes these unintentional features can be quite charming or, at the very least, forgiving. What I DO mind however is when these features are all over the place to the point of being a distraction, or having a game entirely too long so we're forced to persevere these issues time and time again. In other words I'd be willing to forgive this particular shortcoming if the game made up for the choppy/uninspiring graphics in other areas. Sadly, it doesn't. This isn't even much of an issue compared to the other complaints I have (which I'll mention below- keep reading). These graphics -especially the ones in the dungeons- resemble the ones found in the ruins of Mega Men Legends and the walls of the Quake series. The graphics in Link to the Past are unique and cannot be compared to any other game.

Let's discuss the dungeons, shall we? Despite being ridiculously and needlessly large with boring surroundings, most of them have such a small and uninteresting variety of enemies that it's almost a chore going through one generic room after another. Ocarina of Time shows the makings of early 3D development at its most obvious- the platforms are predictable square structures that requires the player to spend most of his or her time lining up Link in order to make proper jumps by turning the camera until Link is positioned enough to reach the platform directly ahead. When you combine the constant requirement of having to change camera angles with having to position Link correctly all for the purpose of being able to see what you're doing and where you're going, it's enough to make you think you're playing with string puppets. Again, early 3D design flaws and datedness.

The storytelling is really basic and predictable. It's never elaborate like in Wind Waker or Skyward Sword. It's mainly about rescuing or saving these mountainous cave creatures called Goron's for the first half, and going back and forth from the past to the present in the second half. This is a really uninteresting way of time travelling that feels almost nonexistent due to being so poorly and unsatisfyingly implemented. It doesn't even feel or look like you're going 7 years into the future as Link's appearance is supposed to be that of an older person but he doesn't appear to be much different from his younger self. Oh sure he's slightly bigger as an adult and slightly smaller as a kid but it's very subtle. The music is the one area where the game succeeds quite amazingly however. All the theme songs are not only appropriate for the environments, but melodic and memorable. Several dungeon themes are well-made and believably chilling and haunting. The right ingredients were definitely put into the music-making aspect of the game. The Hyrule overworld theme is enjoyable too and won't get on your nerves despite all the time you will undoubtedly spend there.

The dungeons are either incredibly simplistic with strategies that involve the overbearingly dull and overused crate-pushing to open up portals or switches, or hopelessly generic "I'm stuck in a maze and I can't get out" frustration that is an inconvenient trademark of early 3D game design. But... these aren't any ordinary mazes. These are mazes where your surroundings look identical around every turn, hence the flawed early 3D game design. A cheap way of making a maze seem more difficult than it has to be, or in other words, needlessly difficult chores instead of exciting castle exploration which is what made the 2D Zelda's so memorable. Sometimes you have to light torches with arrows or by other means, and quite often you have to collect 5 silver rupees to activate a switch/open a door. Collecting these silver rupees is WAY too similar to Super Mario 64 with the red coins. The Lost Woods is a tunnel-infested maze with no personality whatsoever. The Lost Woods -if you plan on getting everything the game has to offer- will most definitely be the source of endless frustration.

The enemies, or rather, what little enemies you will stumble upon on your "adventure" through the temples, is probably the most aggravating part of the entire game. These dungeons are sorely in need of something to spice them up and make them pleasurable. You will often go 3 or 4 rooms at a time without seeing a single enemy. Why even have a sword? In the 2D games the idea was simple- just load or overload the rooms with a variety of enemies and, guess what? *Now* the dungeons are exciting. A genius idea really. Here? In Ocarina of Time? It's all about atmosphere. It's all about featuring as little opposing danger as possible so you can absorb what was once Nintendo's most recent creation back in 1998. But... Nintendo forgot to take into account that technology will inevitably advance and a game relying on atmosphere above everything else will eventually suffer and become inferior one day. What was once a brand new puppy in 1998 is now a tired old dog thanks to the surroundings being boring and incredibly basic in their design. Video game technology is destined to advance making a game like this completely forgettable. That's exactly what has happened with Ocarina of Time- it hasn't stood the test of time.

Do you really think those poorly animated mechanical blue tektite spiders in the water dungon are worthy of a Zelda game? Seriously? Their animations are so stiff due to the Nintendo 64's limitations as a console that it's unbearable to deal with them and laughable at the way they lunge towards Link. But even then, *most* dungeon enemies fall way short of acceptable. Big Skulltula is a laughably bland attempt at being dangerous- it's more like a nuisance when one of these comes down out of nowhere while you're running around. The spikes that roll around are incredibly basic and uninteresting. Somehow *all* the enemies manage to never once be memorable. Ever! Ocarina of Time has dated horrendously, seriously. Wolfos are unintetionally funny with their choppy movements and the dated howling sounds they make, Red Bubble is basically the same thing as Big Skulltula but on fire, and Gibdos are boring. The ReDead's let out a hilarious scream that freezes Link in place which is inconvenient when you're trying to get up the ladder right in front of you and even more inconvenient when you're stuck in a room with two of them. Mummies are poorly designed since all you have to do is hookshot them, run behind them, and slice them with your sword. To be fair, some enemies are cool such as Deku Baba where it's best to snap its vine with the sword for an instant kill- creatively well done there. The Deku Scrub where you can block or sword swipe its shooting seeds with the shield and ricochet the seeds back at them is neat. And the Lizalfos and Dinalfos basically serve as mini bosses due to being somewhat harder and more sophisticated than the other ordinary enemies.

The game overall has a shortage of rupees. They're really not that important which is odd. This is the first Zelda game I've ever played where rupees feel more like an afterthought. Not something to take real seriously. If you don't feel like collecting them, then don't- no harm done. The bosses are alright except for the irritating one in the water dungeon. You have to repeatedly hookshot him while standing next to the platform. It takes FOREVER (and no, this boss is *nowhere* as fun as the water dungeon in Link to the Past in case you're wondering). The hookshot is used MORE than the sword throughout the game because it serves as an effective weapon quite often. The hookshot is a highly recommended weapon to use in a variety of situations, but especially important when collecting these things called gold skulltulas. After you collect 10 gold skulltula tokens, you get a beneficial reward. You can only collect them after defeating the gold skulltula enemy (usually found on walls). I admit I love the witches you face in the Spirit Temple. While the temple itself is really short and boring, it's probably worth going through it so you can face the two witches that make for a rather entertaining boss fight. You have to use your shield to reflect shots at the *other* witch, and it's really fun and creative. The hookshot's basically a required item to properly deal with hard-shelled or spiked enemies in the dungeons and it's annoying that it's used WAY more frequently than the sword throughout the game. Due to how much precision is required to use the hookshot, using this item becomes a very tedious chore after a while (especially if you keep missing your target) and it slows down the pace of the game by a lot.

If you haven't noticed yet, the water dungeon in Ocarina of Time is just abominable. I bring it up often to remind people how terrible a dungeon can be in every possible way. Also, the worst influence ever occurs here- the importance of playing the ocarina musical instrument for a variety of reasons (mostly for warping from one place to another). Nintendo really overdid this aspect of the game by implementing the ocarina WAY too many darn times. It's overdone. Just hurry up and play the darn song and move on for goodness sake. Don't make it so you have to play the ocarina up to 50 times, if not more. I never really counted how many times I used it. It was a lot. It severely drags the gameplay, atmosphere and excitement down and immediately drags the game to a screeching halt having to frequently stop and play these songs on the ocarina. Watching Link stand around and play the instrument is the fruitiest thing I've ever seen. No wonder people think Nintendo makes nothing but kids games these days. This game is partly responsible for that belief due to its influence.

Ganon's castle is supposed to be exhilarating and suspenseful. It's supposed to be filled with dangerous traps, tricky puzzles and enemies all over the place. But... the one in Ocarina of Time falls way short of being presentable by normal Legend of Zelda standards. Instead the castle is dominated with mini quests where you have to go through 6 trials to dispel the main barrier. The problem is that each trial contains really simple and short rooms where you only spend a couple minutes in each one performing the same tasks that you already had to do in the previous dungeons such as collecting 5 silver rupees. This is the complete opposite of being overwhelmingly threatening. Another bonus point for Link to the Past. Oh and the Ganon fight? His strategy is stolen from Agahnim's battle from Link to the Past but takes SEVERAL more minutes to bring down. Remember how you fought Agahnim? Yup, same exact strategy but in a 3D world. Sigh. The second part of the Ganon fight (after a looooong and tedious time-based departure from the top of a castle) is to shoot arrows at Ganon and hit his glowing behind several times. It's really easy, all of it. However fighting him in one of the early dungeons (Forest Temple) is actually one of the most memorable in the entire Zelda series. This is because Ganon rides a horse in and out of these picture frames hanging on the wall making for a VERY unique graphics effect and perhaps an original concept. Reminds me of a Harry Potter movie.

A few other complaints. Fishing is sort of fun but nothing really noteworthy. It's better than most fishing games I've played in other games I admit. Expect to be sitting and fishing a while in order to get the heart piece however. Most heart pieces are pretty challenging to acquire and take some serious effort to get most of them. That's a rare compliment I can give. Some of the other mini games such as riding a horse and shooting targets is pretty fun. I don't really like that part in the desert where you have to follow a ghost through a dust storm. If you fall behind even a *little* bit you'll lose. Performing this same ghost-chasing task earlier in the game in order to obtain the hookshot is more exciting since you're dodging fireballs. The other task earlier on in the game in the Ice Cavern that involves throwing blue fire over red fire is really overlong and entirely puzzle-based. Having to do this once or twice would have been suitable- not 15-20 times. This particular place is a victim of platforms that are basic and uninteresting.

Basically, when compared to the 2D games, Ocarina of Time only feels like half a game due to the dramatic change of turning the Zelda series into 3D but only giving us a small portion of what's available in Link to the Past. As a result the game feels incomplete on too many occasions. It's because the Nintendo 64 is a limited console that's really only able to handle so much. Ocarina of Time comes up way short. Even the first couple hours are disappointing since it takes forever to actually get going. Avoiding being detected by guards isn't fun after the first time. Oh and speaking of avoiding detection- this game actually has a Metal Gear Solid stealth-style mission later on where you have to free these imprisoned carpenter people. The stealth is so underutilized and simplistic that this is the second biggest chore in the game next to the water dungeon. Equally annoying is upon freeing the 4 carpenters, these red sword-swinging enemies appear on screen. The SAME EXACT ENEMY 4 times in a row with *no* differences between any of them. At first these battles seem hard until you realize all you really have to do is lunge your sword directly at them about 5 times, and they fall over and die.

Reading text and having boring discussions with Zelda, trees and other semi-interesting characters doesn't get the job done either. Ganon even seems significantly less threatening than usual (that one conversation with Zelda and Link with Ganon patrolling the hallways nearby in Hyrule Castle comes to mind here). I will admit that some of the flame-covered cutscenes involving Ganon riding his horse is very intimidating. The cutscene outside the bridge of Hyrule Castle comes to mind here. Otherwise, Ganon's presented uninterestingly. You're *supposed* to get a feeling of hopelessness that Ganon is going to take over the world and wipe the people out but... due to a culmination of the above mentioned problems, Ganon being a ruthless villain doesn't ever materialize (at least, he's not as scary as he *should* be).

Recognize Ocarina of Time for making the 3D Zelda series exist. That's fair. It allowed Wind Waker to eventually be created which in turn made the 3D Zelda formula better starting from that game until now. By 2003 Nintendo was working with the technologically superior Gamecube console which allowed the Zelda series to be fully realized in all major categories (gameplay, graphics, replay value and excitement). I say avoid Ocarina of Time but hey, nobody will listen or agree with me anyway so carry on and have a wonderful day!