It really is a shame...  This game was so close to being awesome, but, like just about every other Lucasfilm game (except Super Empire Strikes Back on SNES), it fails in its execution.
I'll start with the positives though.  The graphics are excellent, though the characters may appear just SLIGHTLY dated.  They animate very well, having been motion-captured.  The backgrounds are awesome, and so is the music.  Of course, you can't go wrong with Star Wars when it comes to graphics and music anyway.  The character voices are even cool as they sound just like their actor counterparts.
However, the gameplay... this, unfortunately, is what ruins it.  Now, there are some cool features here such as a free running mode which makes the game truly 3D like Bushido Blade (and unlike the pseudo 3D of Tekken, for instance).  There is also a limited guard meter (like Street Fighter Alpha 3), which prevents turtling.  Unfortunately though, these nice features are overshadowed by very serious flaws.  First of all, the are the motion-captured moves.  While they look great, they're also extremely jerky when translated to the game.  They are also plagued with horrible lag and recovery times.  Even a simple jab leaves you open for all sorts of counterattacks.  The other problem is the control: it flows like 3-year-old Heinz ketchup.  There is no hope of stringing any moves together because the game cancels out all additional button presses from the moment you start a move all the way until your character completely recovers at the end of the move.  This wouldn't be so bad, except for the previously mentioned problem: extremely slow recovery times.  In fact, the lag time for throwing a swing is longer than the recovery time from getting hit by one!  This means that you hit the opponent with your strongest move, and they recover from it before you do.
The most annoying problem though, by far, is the sidestepping.  Though this may be a cool feature, it is also horribly abused.  The computer AI seems to have an obsession with it, sidestepping constantly (I've timed it--they never go more than 2 seconds without sidestepping, even when they aren't being attacked).  Now, this doesn't sound like much, but it really is a huge problem.  The constant sidestepping also rotates the game's camera.  This makes the computer impossible to hit with any straightforward attack because you are never properly aligned with them.  Combine this with the slow recovery times, and you'll run into situations like this:  You smack the enemy with the first hit in a combo which, logically, should set him up for the next hit, right?  Wrong.  Because of the unbalanced recovery times, he'll recover before your second swing ever comes out, and he'll sidestep, then stand there watching as you go off swinging at the air in some odd direction.  Then he'll automatically turn to face you and hit you in the back of the head (since your character takes forever to re-align himself properly when he isn't facing the opponent--another design flaw).  The constant camera rotation (or, swirling, to be more precise) makes you lose all orientation on the playing field.  Add to this archaic features such as "Ring Out" (which should have gone out in the Jurassic period of fighting games), and you have an unplayable, nerve-wracking mess.  Basically, you will lose many matches from being smacked in the back of the head as the computer rotated the camera on you, or by cheap Ring Outs because you couldn't see where you were on the battlefield (again, because the computer rotated the camera on you).
I'm not particularly a fan of 3D fighters, and this game reminds me of why.  Stay away from this one.  If you're not a Star Wars fan, it's just a bad fighting game.  If you are a Star Wars fan, that will make you even more disappointed in this title.