Banjo-Kazooie is a strange platformer, but ultimately misses the mark in all key areas of being entertaining.  It tries to be funny without actually being exciting to play so the game feels like a big misleading tease.  All the attention on humor and yet, the game itself is hardly ever fun.  This means children would probaly be able to overlook the games flaws and focus on the humor, which I'm sure was Nintendo's intentions- to market the game for kids and assume they wouldn't be able to detect the lousy game design.  I guess the Nintendo 64 struggling to make a profit at the time meant Nintendo had to do absolutely anything and everything to try and get *any* type of crowd interested in their products despite the poor quality we're forced to persevere, so that explains Banjo-Kazooie's existence.

Anyway, Banjo-Kazooie is basically nothing but an item-collecting quest with graphics that are admittedly prettier and just better than 90% of the stuff the N64 was pumping out at the time.  The waters, grassy lands, mountains... everything is a beautiful sight to behold with crystal clear authentically pleasing environments.  Probably on par with Donkey Kong 64 in terms of graphics but definitely NOT in terms of gameplay or the sheer size of the overworld which is incredibly tiny in Banjo-Kazooie.  But seriously, why am I basically doing nothing but walking around collecting items the entire time?  If you think "That's what ALL platformers do!" guess again: many of them focus on exciting enemy variety, diverse surroundings and a gradual increase in challenge which this game sorely lacks.  The only challenge is to avoid falling from high narrow platforms while collecting musical notes- these are dirty tricks and artificial challenges.  I found sharks you have to swim away from, crabs you can stomp on top of, and weird gigantic green enemies that come out of walls while you're trying to make your way across high paths without falling.  These enemies only appear like 10% of the time- the rest of your surroundings aren't very threatening.

Let's see all the things you have to collect.  Honeycomb pieces, jiggy pieces (mandatory to open entrances to new locations and you need to obtain a certain number of them per world), 100 musical notes which is a total ripoff of Super Mario 64 with the 100 coins needed to get a star, mumbo tokens used to cast spells, and jinjo tokens used to win vehicle parts.  You can turn into animals and insects which is somewhat satisfying for the sake of seeing the occasional brief moments of diversity, but otherwise nothing to get really excited about.  Often you have to climb trees or mountains to reach the items on top and it gets boring after a while, believe me.  The snowy and dessert areas are incredibly generic too, as are the underwater cave sections and grasslands.

Oh and the game is a victim of underwater tragedies- you're constantly adjusting the camera for a more appropriate angle but finding that it's much harder than it needs to be.  I will never understand why Nintendo refuses to fix water portions in 3D platform gaming.  It's mind-boggling.  They didn't even fix them in Super Mario Galaxy 2, a game released a good 10 years after Banjo-Kazooie.  The characters are all forgettable, including the ponytail-sporting female bear and Banjo himself.  Kazooie the bird is probably the only tolerable one of the bunch.

Whereas the Mario series can be enjoyed by kids and adults respectively, Banjo-Kazooie is certainly intended solely for children and no other age group.  It's too shallow of a game overall to satisfy adult gamers.  Banjo-Kazooie is like walking into the nicest looking restaurant in town and everything is great except for one thing- you get a small quantity of food so you ask yourself "Is it worth my time to return here again?"