If you like the story then get this. For me, multiplayer is where it counts and I have more fun with Rage Wars. FRAG TAG IS AWESOME!!Awful controller. Tamborine slaps in Rock Band 4 just don't register. Went with the official mic and things are much better now.Miyamoto slacked off on this one.
1. This is certainly not the best game ever. Not even the best game on Nintendo 64. Super Mario 64, and Perfect Dark both stomp this game into submission.
2. This is not a role-playing game. Role-playing games have a lot of text and character involvement. This game has a script that is about two pages long, maybe less. What you say or do in this game really has no effect on the games out come.
3. This is not the best Zelda game. The Legend Of Zelda, Links Awakening, and A Link To The Past are all much better games, especially for their time.
4. This game is not 256 Mega Bytes. It is actually 256 Mega Bits, which is equal to 32 Mega Bytes. So sorry the game isn't nearly the size of a 650/700 Mega Byte CD-ROM.
5. The game has no replay value, I played through it once, then about a year later, I attempted playing through it again, I couldn't bare it, the game is just too boring. I played through Final Fantasy VII and VIII twice each, and those took alot longer than this to finish, they were both great both times through.
I loved the good old Zelda games but this just doesn't deserve the Zelda name, lets just hope that Zelda on the Game Cube doesn't turn out the same way.I recently tried playing this game, and by this point, my N64 is lucky it didn't get chucked out the window. The first few passes through the first few stages were fine, and pretty fun, but the rest of the game ends up being one long, annoying, tedious, impossible, and frustrating chore.

To start off, the control just isn't good enough to pull off HALF the things you need to do in this game. There are instances where you must execute specific jumps to get you from point A to point B, but half the time, the controller is non-responsive. Especially when it comes to levels that put you high up, this usually means falling...over and OVER again!

To add to this annoyance is the fact that there are no check points. If a level requires you to go to the top of a mountain, and you spend half an hour just getting up there and then you fall, you have to climb the whole thing ALL OVER AGAIN! So if you're like me, and find your self wondering off cliffs every other try because of the awful camera work, you will be playing the same stages over and over with no payoff but one big headache!

Now let's talk about the camera. Throughout most of the game, I found my self fighting IT more than I fought Bowser. It's simply impossible to judge distances based on where the camera is facing at any given time. Pressing the C buttons will move it around, but you have to keep perfectly still in order to avoid suddenly gong sideways or backwards. If you are in a stage where there is a time limit or a complicated jump, this can be particularly fatal.

Adding to this frustration is the fact that it is incredibly easy to over or under jump! This wouldn't be as much of a problem if it weren't for all the levels which require you to get to "the top" of things. Again, if you fall once, that's it, you start all over again. If the game designers weren't going to give you any continue points in these levels, why-o-why did they make it SO FRIGGIN' EASY FOR YOU TO FALL!!!???

There are plenty of levels and stages in this game, and lots to do in all of them. But by the time I cleared one stage, I really questioned whether or not I wanted to even GO to the next. Finally, after reaching a mere 52 stars, my answer is no.

So that's my two cents on this game, I can't beat it, I don't want to beat it. I'd rather go to a Morrissey concert with Kathy Griffin as the opening act than try to play it again. It would me MUCH less annoying than this game!I'm pretty sick and tired of people calling Super Mario 64 a classic.  It's not.  Just because it's significant and influential in helping pave the way for future Mario titles doesn't mean Super Mario 64 is deserving of its classic status, or that it's any fun to actually play.  Super Mario Galaxy came along and pretty much improved every single aspect of Super Mario 64 so you basically no longer have to play this game other than to get a dated taste of mid 90's gaming history.  The only other possible reason someone would play Super Mario 64 is because they desperately seek open world exploration, and this is basically the only Mario platformer that can at least attempt to satisfy gamers with that particular appetite.  Not that I personally believe the game succeeds at the exploring aspect either.

The biggest problem is that so much of the land you explore consists of emptiness.  Oh sure you'll see trees, ramps, castles, buildings, enemies such as goombas, chain chomps, badly and laughably animated thwomps lifting up and slamming down, pokeys, rolling boulders, and other things that have become a trademark of the Mario series, but the amount of items to find and collect is *extremely* limited to coins (both yellow and red ones) and the occasional power-up that enables Mario to either fly (which admittedly is pretty fun) or obtain the incredibly boring metal cap that makes Mario invincible.  An alternative to the starman perhaps, with lousy side effects (Mario can't jump as high or far while wearing the metal cap).

When you're not experiencing the endless disappointment that is running across empty and boring lands and basically doing nothing but wasting time, you're jumping across a series of unspectacular and very ordinary-presented platforms over and *over* again.  This stuff seriously resembles a beginners course for developing platforms.  It's extremely basic game design.  The platforms are generic square-shaped tiles for you to jump across that quite often are all the same exact size.  It gets monotonous almost immediately.  Only unreasonable Nintendo fans would eat this stuff up, seriously.  Anybody else would obviously be able to detect flawed, repetitive gameplay.  The 2D Mario games move at such a swift pace that you don't even have time to stop and notice the platforms (unless you're an extremely slow gamer).  This is mainly because you don't have to stop and situate Mario a certain way for the purpose of making the perfect jump which is what severely ruins Super Mario 64's gameplay.  And don't EVEN say my skills are horrible when it's obvious through countless youtube videos that several gamers have the same exact issue.

While I'm by no means someone who cares about the best graphics available, you gotta admit the ones here have dated horrendously with embarrassing blocky shapes pretty much occupying most areas of the game.  The buildings, water and trees in particular are just awful for the eyes.  Nothing appealing whatsoever about any of the graphics- even the bright inviting colors don't lure me in but rather rub me the wrong way and force some of us older gamers to recall the unpleasant days of Mario Paint.

You have to collect 120 stars in order to complete the game 100% but guess what?  Many of the stars are flat out boring to collect due to being pathetically easy and basically being handed to you within minutes.  What kind of challenge is that?  The one where you have to swim around and open treasure chests in a certain order is baby-ish, and the one where you swim around collecting 8 predictably located red coins inside a basic building near the beginning of the game is offensive.  Or how about simply stomping a post into a ground to release a gate and thus, release the star?  Don't even *think* about mentioning the ones where you walk up to Toad and he simply hands you the star.  Granted, the game seems to always alternate easy star-collecting challenges with longer and more drawn out ones as a way to balance things out but that's the problem- the stars are either too easy or too long.  There is one star mission so awful it makes your inevitable death seem like something to anticipate- the one where you have to jump across a series of moving poles.  You have to jump at *just* the right moment while making sure you're positioned in the right spot.  This takes forever and is dreadfully annoying.

Also, what's up with all the little baby games?  Grab a baby penguin and slide down a snowy hill?  Chase the bunny so he doesn't hop away?  These are not suitable for anyone who recalls the challenging portions of previous 2D gaming such as Super Mario Bros. 3 or Super Mario World (and yes, these bunny grabbing missions are flaws in Super Mario Galaxy too, in case you think I'm intentionally favoring Super Mario Galaxy for no reason).  At least the cannon-shooting parts are cool.  It's fun figuring out where to launch Mario so he can land safely on upper grounds.

I can't help but feel the red star collecting is overrated.  When you collect red stars in Yoshi's Island, you feel like you're given a really elaborate and perfectly executed assignment since you also have to collect flowers and stars to 100% complete a stage.  It's a lot to do not to mention really darn exciting and satisfying once you've acquired all these items, and constantly keeps your attention span in check while searching for them.  Super Mario 64 basically takes that one red coin-collecting element of Yoshi's Island and makes it a main priority here.  You often have to collect 8 red coins per stage (opposed to 20 in Yoshi's Island) to obtain one of the 120 stars.  Ugh.

But nothing NOTHING is worse than the fact you have to re-enter stages over and over again just to grab all the stars that are located throughout.  To me this is unquestionably lazy game design.  How can it be anything else?  Who in their right mind would actually *want* to keep going back to the same exact stage ad nauseam?  Super Mario World was guilty of this too granted but not NEARLY to this exaggerated extent.  A terrible idea that gives a false impression a game has replay value but it's exactly the opposite- once you go through the same stage a bunch of times and finally accomplish everything there is to offer, you won't want to repeat these same objectives ever again.  So... you probably won't want to play Super Mario 64 ever again.  Even worse- when you often have to search for 100 coins to obtain a star.  This can take up to 20 minutes and bore you the entire time.  Being forced to collect 100 coins is a lazy way of assuring gamers don't leave any stone unturned because you basically have to thoroughly search every nook and cranny of a stage to even *find* 100 of them.

I also dislike how many of the classic enemies aren't included here such as the hammer brothers, buzzy beetles, bloopers, and cheep cheeps.  Even the koopa troopa is nowhere to be seen (well, other than that one race in the beginning).  You can ride a koopa shell like a skateboard but that doesn't count as an enemy appearance.  He's not a true enemy here.  Why is that?  Why not include all the familiar and well-loved enemies that have become a trademark to the Mario series?  They ruin the pirahna plants by the way.  Why is he sleeping?  Granted he comes alive when you get near, but it's a really weird concept.  At least Nintendo got the boos and haunted house right- a surprising and exciting maze-like high point of the game.  It's a lot of fun sorting through each room of the haunted house stages.  *That's* how you design a memorable stage.  Obviously if you weren't busy running around through several vast and average-designed empty fields of grass, there could have EASILY been room for the inclusion of more enemies.  Hey I'm all for open world exploration, but you have to actually fill in those areas with exciting, creative items that are both fun and rewarding to collect for the player, and enemies that present threatening encounters and a rush of excitement.  Simply throwing Mario into a big 3D world because it's his first grand 3D adventure truthfully isn't going to get the job done I'm afraid.  More needs to be done.

Constantly having to rearrange the camera so you can see where you're actually going is a nuisance.  Nobody likes dealing with a camera while jumping around trying to play a video game, but granted, several games back in the mid to late 90's were guilty of the same camera problems since developers were still getting their feet wet so to speak, and figuring out the best way to help players accurately and conveniently see what's ahead.  Still, you'll lose more than a few lives due to bad camera angles in Super Mario 64.  I guarantee it.  One thing I *do* like about this game is how fast Mario runs.  It's a fast-moving game, which helps going from point A to point B more convenient. Also some of the wall jumps and triple jumps are fun to execute.  Reminds me of Super Metroid in that respect.  Yoshi is teased in this game (I won't spoil how) but he's not actually playable which doesn't make sense.  Why make an appearance if he's not going to be playable?

The music is either extremely good (the brilliant peaceful moodiness of the water theme and the intimidating and exciting heavy metal-like Bowser fights) or downright horrendous (everything else, which consists of annoying nursery rhyme children's themes inappropriate and painfully skull-smashing for the rest of us).  I can't STAND the theme songs that play in Whomp's Fortress and Rainbow Ride- two unforgivable themes that make me want to smash my brains in whenever I play Super Mario Galaxy 2 where they return in all their overbearingly annoying glory.  Rainbow Ride in particular reminds me of a county hayride where kids ride around on tractors (not to mention the stage itself is extremely tedious and overlong).  The snowy mountain stage with the Italian accordion music is sickening and out of place.  Just mute the volume on your TV to make life easier for yourself.  The boss fights are incredibly simplistic- grab Bowser's tail, spin him around and toss him, or pick up/stomp other bosses.  Basic, boring stuff.

A few stages that are actually fun include Lethal Lava Land where the platforms convincingly feel like an upgrade into the 3D world from the original Super Mario Bros. castle levels (not to mention better/more interesting use of platform jumping compared to the rest of the levels in SM64), Shifting Sand Land since it's packed with obstacles and enemies (and reasonably challenging overall), and Tall Tall Mountain's tricky climb to the top (involving a vine climbing portion).  In fact, to be fair, Tall Tall Mountain is one of the best levels ever in a 3D Mario game.  It's *that* good.  Bowser's castle levels are pretty solid as well, mostly due to the fast-paced nature of them.

Several things feel tacky- the 1-ups and coins are small, dark, ugly looking, and clumsily made due to less than spectacular graphics and game design, and overall Super Mario 64 is just a really lackluster and highly overrated game.  If not for influence, this game would have been forgotten and the superior Super Mario Galaxy series would have prevailed even more dominantly than they already do.  Oh and don't even mention the cake-eating storyline.  It's atrocious.  The fact they brought it back for the Galaxy series makes me want to vomit.Let me just say that i think mario 64 is a okay game as far as gameplay and graphics goes but, every level get's harder and harder it's so hard it would take you months to beat it and by the time you do you would be white as a sheet from staying inside all the time and 50% of your muscles would atrophy. also the ending really sucks it ends by princess toadstool saying let's make a cake for mario then it's over so don't waste your time with this game.I enjoyed the first Hawx game. However they left out some key things in Hawx 2

1) No coop mode - I really enjoyed that
2) Can't choose your own plane right off the bat. You have to use whatever they tell you.

Those two things will make me not play this game anymore!Before I start, let me explain that I'm writing this review from the standpoint of an occasonal video gamer, namely, me. This review probably would not hold true for hardcore/professional video gamers.  I have played all of the classic Mario Bros games, and loved them all, except for this one. For one reason, and one one reason only. For the casual gamer, controlling Mario in a precise manner is an exercise in futility. If you only play your games a couple of hours a week like me, if you are not a "pro," the human language cannot describe just how much this game will frustrate you. I mean it, the control is HORRIBLE.  For those of you over the age of 21, try to imagine this: You're very very drunk, and trying to walk down an ice covered slope. That would be EASIER than controlling Mario in this game, in places where it matters the most, precise maneuvering in tight spots. You can't use the control pad at all, just the joystick.  With all of the brilliant minds working for Nintendo, I would think that they could have developed a better way to control the character through the use of the control pad.  Another thing. If you are prone to car-sickness or other types of motion induced illness, you can't play this game for more than 30 minutes at a time. Believe me, I'm not stretching the truth. I served 10 years in the USAF, and did alot of flying during those years, so I'm not exactly the "weak stomach" type.  Would I recommend buying this game? By all means, yes, if you are a hardcore player. The graphics are pretty cool and have a definite charm. For all you pros out there, I would agree with a 4 or 5 star rating for this game.  For the occasional gamer like me, I would recommend renting it before buying it. Your experience may or may not be as bad as mine..........I love Sim. games very much but I did not like this Sim. game.  After I would have my little city all set up I would need to watch it like a hawk leaving me with almost no time to expand and improve on my little city.  I have been told to give this game another try but I just can not find a reason to go back and try this game again.I started my first succesful city (w/o a starter city) and it was great! Then, after about two hours of gameplay, MY 855,500 pop. city had a problem with people. It must have, because in less than 20 minuets, My city was reduced to about 250,000 pop. Get this IT WAS FOR NO APPARENT REASON. My popularity was high, all of the ordenances I could have had were activated, all buildings had water and power, I had full funding to schools, firestations, police, ect., police and fire coverage were excelant, taxes were only at 3 for everything (Ind., Com., and Res.), and everything else you could think of, I had it. It was the perfect city and my whole population (who still liked by the way) left the city. If you have a good reason for it , I'd say it was a glitch in the game. Don't get me wrong, it is a fun game when there is a reason to the sudden drops, but I don't think you can have a real good city that lasts for more than four or five hours and there is no good city, they'll all die out eventually. The only option you have is LOSS. I am hoping that SC 4000 will be MUCH better.game came on time and works. This game is pretty bad in my opinion I would stick to the 2d whipping action if your looking for fun. You choose from 2 pretty lame characters, camera angles are no good and the gameplay it's self is not great. Get this game to add to your collection but other then that this game is a waste of energy.Konami took a bold step into 3-D with this Castlevania installment for the 64.  Unfortunately, it didn't live up to expectations, which part of it is because it wasn't the same people (believe it or not) that did Symphony of the Night (PSX).  Read on to see why it's a below average game:
THE GOOD
Finally, Castlevania in 3-D!  Despite many shortcomings, the game does have some eerie music and a dark atmosphere, which are characteristic of a Castlevania game (at least the newer releases).  You can select between two characters (Carrie and Reinhart) that change the storyline somewhat.
THE BAD
I was never a fan of the 64 controller and this is the one game where it hurt most.  The controls and gameplay were difficult at best, and normally I have a decent tolerance level for controls; Here's where I absolutely loathed it.  Getting your character to go where you want is quite a challenge for this game.  Also, the storyline, aside from the two characters' different (yet similar) paths, is really hollow at its core and doesn't add anything new to the Castlevania legacy.
OVERALL
Not recommended.  I advise renting the game only.  ONLY BUY IT IF YOU ARE A DIE-HARD N64 FAN.  Otherwise, I strongly recommend skipping it.  I'm a big Castlevania fan and I feel that this game does not do the series justice.  I noticed some people in their reviews that they liked this game over Bloodlines (Genesis); Why?!  Bloodlines had far better gameplay and replay value than this!  Perhaps it's because 90% of gamers today prefer graphics over gameplay, when it's GAMEPLAY that creates the game.Overall, it's a pretty good game. 1 star taken off because it does not feature the original soundtrack, and because of this many levels are silent or have different music. another star taken off because of load times, the graphics, lag (come on, no amount of enemies should make a game like this lag), and the censoring of some levels. Also, no 2-player Co-op, only online which is stupid. If you simply MUST have it on PSX then you'll enjoy it, if not then just buy the PC version.I loved the first Hawx PC game when it came out. Playing Hawx 2 got boring after several missions, is just a shame.This is a futuristic dirt bike game, where rather than riding dirt bikes, you ride a jet-powered motorcycle. The game starts out being fun racing along exotic 3D courses like a jungle island, an earthquake rattled Los Angeles that has fallen into the sea, a cold mountain passageway and so on. When the player advances past the first few races the game stops being fun and starts getting unnecessarily and frustratingly difficult, because rather than having track borders (like walls) where the racer cannot go past a certain point, the courses further in the game take away those walls so you literally fall off the track. It is also unclear where the finish line is, sometimes you must do a lap around a circular track, and other times you must do a U turn then go back through the track. Then reappear on the track, far behind the other racers. The game is full of jumps, ridiculously high jumps, and while you are in the air you can do flips and tricks. Not any advanced tricks like from Tony Hawk. There are several racers, however the racers are so uneven that you can pick a certain racer and win constantly.It works fine for PS/PS2 controllers, though rumble isn't supported. In analog mode, the D-pad is mapped to buttons 13-16 instead of a hat switch as you might expect. This can mean extra configuration for some games, but it does allow it to register simultaneous presses of opposite directions (eg. left+right), which has always been one of the odd things about PlayStation controllers. In digital mode, the left stick reads as centered but the Z and Z Rotation axes (right stick) are either all the way up or down, which can cause some trouble.

The N64 side doesn't work at all for me. I tried it with both an OEM Nintendo controller and an InterAct MakoPad 64 (both tested and work perfectly with a real N64). With both of them, all buttons and axes (even the ones N64 controllers don't have, like the right stick) constantly press and unpress on their own.

Note that there is a switch on the left side of the unit that switches between N64 and PlayStation modes. Away from you is PlayStation (left/red LED), towards you is N64 (right/green LED). I say this because there are no instructions and the switch is completely unlabeled.This Game Isn't Very Exciting. I Don't Like This Game. It's Boring .What You Do In This Game Is Try To Go Through Boring Levels That Don't Look Very Detailed. I Warn You. You Won't Like This Game. I Warn You. Don't Pick This Up. This Game Is Really Old  And Just Such A Bad Game .I only gave this game 2 stars because if you're die-hard South Park fan, it's possible that you might enjoy this game... but I like South Park, and I HATED it. The controls are IMPOSSIBLE to use (you have to use the C buttons most of the time), the gameplay is repetitive and boring (all you do is walk around throwing snowballs at turkeys), and the multiplayer part is boring too. One pro is that the guns are pretty original & the South Park kids say some funny things, but the novelty wears off after a while. I bought this game when it first came out, for ..., and I sold it for $5 at a stoop sale... I just wanted to get rid of it, it's really that bad. If you really have to get it, at least rent it first.This game was very poorly made...it's really boring, because all you do is walk around and throw stuff at things. All the enemies are exactly the same, there's never any health, and 100 health points aren't enough, because the health goes down too fast. The sight of range is ridiculous because half the screen is nothing but fog, and it all just draws in as you walk ahead, making it hard to see enemies. I do like seeing the familiar South Park characters in 3D, the game is very funny, and the weapons are hilarious! But still, I wouldn't buy it. Rent at most.It looks interesting at the beginning but I was bored after less than 25 hours of play. Not enough variety in the missions.Who in their right mind thought using up on the D-pad for accelerate was a good idea? Little things like this absolutely take all the fun out of the game. The vehicles move around like they're on a tightrope trying not to lose control and cornering and braking are deplorable and is a complete mess. Graphics hardly mean anything to me, but man does this game look harsh, probably the worst for the PS1, even for its time. This game hasn't aged well at all. It has almost put me off on trying the sequels, but I hear they get better. I tried, I really did, but it's way too short and the controller quirks along with the vehicle mechanics make this game almost a chore to play today.Ordered Twisted Metal #1, which is what the artwork and title suggests, developed by SingleTrack.  Instead, received Twisted Metal 3 which was developed by 989 Studios and is of inferior quality.  Although I am happy to have received anything at all, it was not the correct item.My father is a seaman. I have seen many ships, sailed with him around the world numerous times. So ships are in my blood. When i saw this game I bought it without batting an eyelid. Well I wish I didn't because I now regret my decision.

The game is unique in its concept. We never really had a maritime ship simulation that wasn't centrally focused on war and sinking other ships :). This one happens to be just peace-time shipping simulation with different kinds of detailed ships ranging from cargo, to passenger, to rescues, to towing, to even trying to alter history by succesfully sailing Titanic to New york on its first maiden voyage etc. The game creator has gone to great details to simulate as much as possible the Intricacies of piloting as well as managing huge ships operations. Any aspiring sea captian or sea salt will identify with some if not most aspects of piloting a ship as simulated in this game. But to me thats where all the goodies end.

The cons associated with game are just too game-breaking to me and i have essentially stopped playing the game. Until these issues gets addressed i am not spending anymore money on this games series.

First and foremost this game badly needs a voluntary "Time Compression" feature. Not all of us have 2-3 hours to devote each time we decide to play this game to have some fun. Sometimes it take an hour or so just to get out of harbour and tag some hours more on this to complete the mission. With a game in which you are looking at ocean waves for hours this gets boring really fast. This is just plain very annoying and game destroying factor to me. I know some people have all the time in the world to savour and enjoy games but a lot don't too. Since its not a action oriented game the passage of time is felt even more. If they can incorporate a Time Compression feature it will make the game lot more open to different segments of gamers.

Second is the still dated graphics engine. I see lots of people commenting on how good the graphics look. I have a pretty good rig and i can play games like Mass Effect and Silent Hunter 4 in almost thearatical quality but even with everything maxed out this game just looks medicore graphics wise. The ships and ocean etc. looks very simplistically rendered from today's standard. The graphical quality of this game released in 2008 is kind of dissappointing though.

Last some of the missions in the game are just plain novice or fillers in my opinion. This game is geared towards people who like to pilot huge ships yet we have a lot of missions devoted to speed boats for stunts, hover boats etc. I bought the game to simulate a ship expirience not go around flipping in speed boats.

Anyways..i wouldn't really recommend anyone spend $40 bucks on this game. Wait until it gets to $19 or so bargain bin. And i hope the developers put some real effort into make a more viable ship simluator for its next incarnation or you are not getting any more money from me.this game is very boring there are around 30 wrestlers but only ten of them are real wrestlers you can only punce kick and do the signiture move  its not worth it at allthe graphics aren't very good and the ship to shore radio is so distorted and accented that it is impossible to understand what is being said.  The game can be fun, but if you are looking for an ocean going version of microsoft flight simulator this isn't it.  It's not a lousy game, nor is it a great game, it's just okay.The Good: Decent story, tons of gore, great graphics and audio, new features are neat

The Bad: Abysmal combat, terrible control, extremely slow pace, laughable voice acting

I tried so hard to love RE1 and look beyond its major flaws. Flaws such as the abysmal combat system. You can't aim at anything! The tank controls don't help either so you always end up dying CONSTANTLY, and with a lack of health and ammo you'll toss your PS1/PS2/PS3/PSP out the window. The other flaw is the level design. Everything is so confusing and it's so easy to get lost. The map doesn't help one bit because all it does is highlight the hallway that you are in red and you have to decipher what doors go where.

Another thing that doesn't help is the game's pace...it's sooooooo slow! When you open a door or walk up stairs the animations talk forever to finish, menu are slow, text is not skippable. Another flaw is the laughable and hideous voice acting. They actors sound like they're fresh out of remedial drama, while the live action cut scenes are just as bad. The only good part about RE is the story, enemies, and the amount of gore there is. While DC offers vibration, uncensorship, and a few game play tweaks it's not worth it. RE4 was my first RE and going back to this is just awful. If you haven't played RE1 you're not missing much at all.It was a good game. Played it at someone's house and when I got a PS I had to get it. How times change.On hog ride. People has misplaced faces and they look like they took drugs. This game sucked. :) Sonic is better!!!I don't think this game is good it is I beat the game before and it was ruined for me the levels were empty feeling it was a crappy game I like about this game is the animals and the graphics. The Gnasty Gnorc boss fight was more like a chase instead of destruction I think this is a touch of old flights and bad name levels who could name a boss called Blowhard? I give this an above average 2 stars out of 5this game is pretty bad first off all you can do is run strait the only good thing about is its pretty long the other bad thing is its to hard and it gets boring i wouldnt buy this game if you want a crash bandicoot game get either 2,3,4.I got this game  a week ago.  When I first saw this game I thought I was going to like it.  When I popped the c.d in the playstation It was so darn frustrating to control croc.  I only went to the dessert world.  When I was in the ice world I kept losing cuz u go a long way just to get a key to save a freakin gobbo.  Croc for game boy color is much better than the one for playstation.  If u r looking for a really good cute, funny, fun, interesting game get Gex: Enter the gecko.  What I am tring to tell u is that DON'T GET THIS GAME EVER.Naughty Dog and Sony released Crash Bandicoot, which rivaled the likes of Mario and Sonic. In the end, many gamers liked Crash's non-stop action, but others simply just skipped it. Even though it was very promising, Crash's gameplay did not really offer anything new, which featured elements you can find in a 16-bit platformer.

You play as Crash, whose girlfriend is kidnapped by Dr. Neo Cortex. You basically just run through the levels from start to finish and fight bosses after each world. Even though the action is intense throughout, the gameplay becomes really tedious. Crash Bandicoot did nothing new for adventure games and it isn't really 3D since you're restricted to one path. All you do is make your way through levels, dodging obstacles, avoiding enemies, and collect items and nothing more. The difficulty level is not exactly high either, and the challenge is severely lacking.

Crash's graphics are quite impressive for a PlayStation game, including well-textured environments and colorful characters. Effects like running water and mist and fog are great eye-candy. The visuals are the game's only saving grace. Controlling the bandicoot can be a hassle since it doesn't use analog. You're forced to deal with sensitivity of the crosspad and at times will result in unwanted deaths.

Aside from good graphics, you're left with nothing but an average platformer equivalent to that of a 16-bit Sonic game in a polygonal world. While it may be 3D, Crash plays out too much like an old side-scrolling game of the past. I don't know why would anyone want to play this game because Crash Bandicoot pales in comparison to other breakthrough adventure games at the time, like Sega's NiGHTS and Nintendo's Mario 64.I really, really wanted to like this game, I loved the cover, and I loved the characters, and the personality of the protagonist, but the controls are not very good at all. When you push the analog stick back, the character just turns around and moves all over the place, and jumping on platforms is painful to say the least. I would have liked this game if the controls were not so finicky, but it did extremely poorly in that department. If the controls were bearable, I would have actually enjoyed the game.Croc: Legend of the Gobbos for the PlayStation should be a very fun game but some key things make it anything but.

Plot: The evil Baron Dante invades the peace loving Gobbo Island the crocodile name Croc tries to save the day by stopping the evil Baron Dante. 8/10

The plot is a high point in this game as a lot of games have bad stories

Sound: This game has a high quality soundtrack and great sound effects. 9/10

Gameplay: to control croc is the bad point, the game bad controls make this game bad enough to skip. 3/10

Overall: This game is OK, but could have been A LOT better. with its cute and cuddly characters to the beautiful islands This game could have been one of the best and well know PlayStation games, BUT, it is only half that. Oh Nostalgia. You betray me again. 6.6 but for GameSpot's score system 6.5/10I was hesitant to buy this memory card because of the inconsistent reviews of "my carrying case" memory cards, but this thing is working perfectly. Saves and Loads games with no problem. Sony made a fortune with their puny 8MB cards. This is the exact same dimensions, and it holds 128MB. It seems they ran out soon after I bought mine. Sorry! I would definitely recommend this company and their memory cards based on the price and mine working perfectly with every game I've played so far. I'll update this review if the status of my card changes.

*UPDATE*
Stopped working after a couple months of use. Sorry for the long delay in updating my review :^\There's a lot of hype surrounding the Resident Evil series of games. They're on most systems, there are books, and even a movie. The story is a good one, but I found the game to not be so great. Graphics are alright, the sound is bad though. And game play is horrible. Trying to move around is difficult and can be confusing, especially when you're under attack and things are chaotic. The characters move unlike most games. You don't go in the direction of the D-pad, rather you turn with right and left direction and move with a button. It was poorly designed. But since the Playstation 2 is out, and better games as well as more Resident Evil, there's no reason to pick up this game anymore. The 2-disc set here is one adventure with a male character and another with a female. The game is involved, just not as much fun as it shoud beSaved and loaded correctly for a while... then put a 2mb game file on it and it crashed/corrupted all my data... buying sony genuine from now on...I think it's too late to give a review on this game, but here goes. This is the most perverted game ever made. When you think about it, it's pretty disgusting. "Aim for the open spot!", "I'll do you fast, Peppy old pal.", "Fox, get this guy off me!" "I've got a present for ya!" EEEEEEEEEUUU! Should kids be playing these games?
Anyway, the gameplay is fun...for 15 minutes. Then it's bothersome, annoying, and dull. Your team mates have the worst A.I. ever, and they don't get power-ups. The game is horribly easy and WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYY too short. Like, 30 minutes short. Also, the voice acting sucks.
I hope Starfox Adventures will be good. This game shouldn't have started the whole Starfox thing. If so, it needed work.If you are new to Mario party games, check out number 2 or 3. This is fun to begin with but when you keep playing the same mini-games it gets a little boring. We rented this and and liked the concept but didn't enjoy it much but when Mario Party 2 came out and it stated it had more mini-games we bought that one and we really enjoyed it. We can't wait to get the 3rd one. No matter what game you go with expect to play for atleast an hour.Although there are video games out there that can wow you, and then there are the duds. Not all racing games seem to be the best behind the wheel. In the case of a video game coming based from an arcade version, it really seems to be alright, but looks are always decieving. In the case of Nintendo 64, there are very few racing games that really can make it behind the wheel. This isn't really one of them.
The 1996 Crus'n U.S.A. game for Nintendo 64, seems to be a real miss behind the real wheel. The graphics are very strong, but you are limited down to a certain number of cars to choose from, which is seven, not like the more than dozen that there are in the arcade game. Although the courses seem to be within detail, there are so many flaws, including th frame rate and the style of the game, especially within the tunnels of place like Washington D.C. Nevertheless, the game seem to be a little down and out, but at the time it came out for Nintendo 64, it was one of only two video racing games for the Nintendo 64.
It is kind of dissapointing that they couldn't try to make some better video games with racing at the time, but there are so many better choices to the Nintendo 64. If you're really into the racing feel of the Nintendo 64, I suggest you either get Mario Kart 64, Rush 2, or the sequel to Crus'n U.S.A. : Crus'n World.At first I didn't like this game, then I got into it. It's like an electic boardgame. The one thing I hate is playing against the consol. Always play with four real people.Well, what do we have here folks?  A bad movie tie in game?  Well, what else is new?  A Bugs life for the Playstation is a almost universally hated game.  I really didint know what to expect when I first fired it up to try it out.  Did I like it?  Not a whole lot.

You start the game where you must get to your anthill.  You start walking around, getting used to playing, listining to Flick talking, following Dot, and killing evil bugs.  In a few minutes however, you start to realize something.  Flick will not be quiet.  He keeps going on and on and on and on and on and on and on with his annoying comments.  You finish the level and go on to the next level and keep up this pattern untill the end of the game.

  Up untill then, if you haven't tried to get all the little goodies, you will have had a fun time.  But when you play again to try and get all the secrets, the trouble really begins.  For instance, to unlock a movie clip, you must collect all the letters of your name, collect 50 grain kernals, and kill all the bad bugs.  Sounds simple right?  Dont be an idiot.  getting all the grain pices is fairley hard but manigable.  Getting your name is really tough.  In one area you will see the letter F for F-L-I-C-K  To get it, you have to get a tall stalk.  To get the tall stalk, you must collect green tokens scattered throughout the level to power up the stalk power.  After collecting all the tokens, some of which are guarded by really tough bad bugs and others that are placed where you have to use another bug power to get it, you can finially reach the letter...once you get a seed.  Which is located a mile away from the letter.  You have to get the seed and take it to the letter, all the while getting attacked by bad bugs and listining to Flicks annoying commentary.  Once you get the stalk, put it in place and break it open, climb the stalk and get the letter.  Wasent that fun kids!  And you have to do that for EVERY SINGLE LETTER!!!! And don't forget that you have to kill all the bad bugs.  To do that you have to get the tokens for berry power, which are located throughout the level.  However some of them are located out of reach, and you can only reach them by getting a tall plant to help you out.  To do that, you must collect green tokens and get seeds to help you out and yada yada yada yada blah blah blah.

  Get the idea of how frustrating this game can be?  And along with all that, Flick does not shut up, he keeps saying something every 10 seconds.  Along with all these problems, you have to deal with bad graphics, a annoying camera and some really HARD token collecting levels later on in the game (Such as the tree level)

A bugs life does have a few nice points.  Some of the levels are neat, such as the boss battles.  The final battle with Hopper at the end of the game is very cool.  The music is by far the best part of the game, almost all of the tunes are very memorable and addictive.  But beyond that, the things that try to enable replay value almost destroy the game.  Rent before you buy.  Did I mention that Flick never shuts up?

The good:
Some neat levels
cool boss battles
excelent music
the final level

The bad:
none

and the Ugly:
Horrible graphics, abysmal gameplay, Token collecting is impossibly hard, annoying levels, Frustrating ennimies and FLICK DOES NOT SHUT UP!!!This game had the potential to be great, but the controls were very difficult to maneuver with, as your thumbs will become very sore after trying to move your character with the D-pad for however long you play the game. If you can find yourself a specialized D-Pad for fighting games, or one that can override the Dualshock analog limitations, than you just may be good to go, but you can easily take a lot of damage, and you can't save anywhere like you would be able to if you played any of the Doom games, or Quake. If you want something that will scare the jeepers out of you, then go ahead and play this, but if you want a comfortable game with horror elements, I think you are better off playing Doom 3, Silent Hill, the original Quake or Resident Evil 1-3. These are my two cents.I bought this game back in December. I played it for about 2 solid hours. I come to realize that this is it. All the same levels are like this. So boring and so not like the movies, and the movement and the weapons in this game are terrible. Not to mention the animation of the Aliens, they look like they are break dancing or having an upright seizure, moving back and forth like a tiger pacing in a cage. The alien creatures are so predictable in this game, and not the least bit scary. The parasites things that crawl on the ceiling, walls, and floor is perfectly done, but I am going to have to say that even the DOOM games bring better action and better background and goals and weapon options compared to this Alien game. The PC game, ALIEN VS PREDATOR is by far way better than this, and is true to the plot and movie action.

Its too bad I spend 12 dollars on this game, I am going to re-sell it right away and let some other sucker buy it.I remember playing this game back around 1996. I was nearly 12 years old when I first played this game and I thought, at the time, this was a really cool game. I really like the Alien movies (mainly the first and second one) and I was fairly excited to play any game based on my favorite movie.

Now, as a grown up (or maybe still a child at heart, lol), I came across this game again. Remembering all my childhood experiences with this game, I was fairly excited to relive it. Right after playing it for about 5 minutes, I started laughing at myself. I honestly don't know what I saw in this game. The game is so horribly crafted that it's really a surprise that they released this game at all. The graphics are ok (given the time it was released), and the weapons are kinda cool. However, that's all that's good about this game.

If you are buying this game to relive some childhood memories, I recommend not buying it because you're going to ruin some good memories. Just keep it as memories, don't relive it because you might see it differently.KEEP AWAY UNLESS YOU ARE A FAN OF THE ALIEN SERIES!!!

This game is old, and it shows.  There is no Dual Shock capabilities, and pretty much everything is sprite animation except the walls and doors.  It really looks like it could be a cell phone game.  The story is: there is no story.  You are pointlessly taken on an adventure through the areas of the first three movies in the series (the TRILOGY at the time, obviously) and pit against tons of enemies including human foes as well as the Alien creatures and their varients.  This game isn't very creative, or well designed, but it is classic.  In the end, and as a fan of the Alien series, I must say DO NOT play this game.  It will only alter your perception of the series.This is an early military simulation type game, and pretty much obsolete, basically a mediocre pastiche of other stuff being done at the time. The graphics are supposed to be photo realistic but they aren't, the ideal in these types of games is that it should look like a helmet cam worn by a soldier in real life. Everything looks very matter of fact... This isn't a beautiful game to behold. The psn version that I have glitches and freezes up often, I don't know if that was a problem in the original or not but it probably was. The Gabe Logan 3D model is the worst that I've seen in a ps1 game, he has a Sasquatch body with a Lego character face, and stands and walks like Sasha Mitchell. That has nothing to do with the limitations of the system but instead it's a limitation of the artistic ability of the people working on the game. Controls are pretty close to as bad as it gets, very hard to steer your character, mostly worthless auto-lock targeting. There is some creativity to the level design, some okay variety, but there was better stuff being made back then. I stopped playing a level or two after the helicopter boss, because the enemies start wearing super flak jackets that take more than one clip, it turns into a head hunting game where you have to go into manual targeting mode and are left a sitting duck unable to move from the sucky controls.WAY too many positive reviews for such a crappy game.  That's what I think.  Syphon Filter is atrocious.  I received this game as a Christmas present (gee, what a crappy gift) back in the late 90's.  I thought to myself "well, all the N64 players have Goldeneye, I can compete with them when I receive Syphon Filter for my Playstation!"  How wrong I was.

It's not that the actual game is bad.  I mean, walking around shooting people is fun, and it's also fun to avoid being seen and make it to the end of the level without having to fire your weapon once (and having to remain VERY quiet while doing so).  The problem is that the difficulty is incredibly high and the storyline is about as interesting as watching the paint your baby brother smeared all over your television set dry.

Without a certain special code it's REALLY hard to get *anywhere*.  The storyline is similar to one you'd see in the TV show Jag.  It's just not interesting to me.  Walking around shooting people is fun, but that's all the game has going for it.  Now imagine if that special code didn't exist where you can kill people in just one or two shots.  The difficulty would be out of this world.

I also hate the game for the bad memories connected to it.  The Christmas I got the game, I had a few bad personal things happen.  But looking back, Syphon Filter really isn't any good. It's not surprising to me that the game is going for only a couple pennies right now used, and only a couple dollars to buy brand new.  It's not even worth THAT much!It's a shame that the Sega Saturn didn't succeed in North America the way that it did in Japan because they received the Arcade perfect version of this game for the Saturn and to this date there still is not an Arcade perfect version of this game for any home console. You could probably find someone selling a Japanese Sega Saturn on eBay or something, but that's a lot of trouble and who wants to buy an entire foreign system just to play just one great game (and maybe X-Men vs. Street Fighter too!)?

As far as the PlayStation version goes, you are forced to select only one fighter and an assisting teammate due to the PlayStations lack of RAM and VRAM (the Japanese Sega Saturn version requires a packed-in 4 MB RAM Cartridge which allows the game to play exactly like the Arcade version with minimal load times). However there is a trick if you are playing a 2 player game! If both players select the same characters, then you are able to play the game the way it was meant to be played: 2 vs. 2 tag-team! This game plays almost exactly like the previous years X-Men vs. Street Fighter on PlayStation with some new features and different characters. If you liked the way the PlayStation port of Marvel Super Heroes played then you will like this even better since it is more of the same with more character variety and more colorful graphics. Aside from the cutbacks in gameplay style and missing frames of animation (another downside to the PlayStations lack of RAM!), this game is enjoyable enough if you aren't obsessed with the Arcade verion too much. I would still go for the Japanese Sega Saturn version since it is Arcade perfect or wait (and hope) for Capcom to release a Marvel Anthology or another Capcom Arcade Classics compilation with X-Men: Children of The Atom, Marvel Super Heroes, X-Men vs. Street Fighter, this game, Marvel vs. Capcom and Marvel vs. Capcom 2. C'mon Capcom!!!!!!I did not get anything from this product personally and I haven't enjoyed this one at all.This product is unreliable third-party hardware. I suggest you buy the official Nintendo Expansion Pak that will NOT ruin your N64 like the one on this page is said to do. If you value the life of your console and games, use the official Pak and not the generic hardware advertised on this page. Most people won't notice by looking at the picture, but the official Nintendo Pak has a circle pattern in the red top portion unlike the parallel slits in this image. If you aren't familiar with the official Pak, it is very easy to see the image and think it's the official thing. Make sure you either purchase one on Ebay where you can see the pictures of the actual item you're purchasing. Or read the Amazon Seller's item description very carefully before buying to make sure they explicitly claim you are buying the official Nintendo brand Pak.

I post this only because this page is misleading, making you think you are purchasing the official Nintendo Expansion Pak, which you are not.It's a game.  But the acting is no worse than the movie so I give it one  extra star because you can do stuff, not just sit there and watch the  lousey acting. "Qui gon, I have a bad feeling about dis"  Well,  it's kinda fun, I guess. You get to whack things with yer light-saber which  sounds much like the movie and the other sound effects/background ambience  are excellent in my opinion.  Music even better.  Gameplay OK.  Graphics  are not the best for now but very good for 1999.  You want a good Episode I  game, try Racer.The reason I am rating this game 2 stars is because this game is ok not what I expected this game to be thought it was gonna be funI was hoping this was a racing game, but it's an adventure game, so I am not very happy with it at this time.Boy, this game was a real disappointment. I truly expected better for this game, since it was based on a truly cool, badass movie. The main reason why it wasn't so good is because of its difficulty... this game was incredibly difficult! Even with the Player's Guide it was very difficult to beat! The last time I played it was probably 2 to 3 years ago though, and back then I wasn't as skilled as I am now at video game playing... maybe I'll give it a second chance. Still, its chances of not being sold or something are not really good.
After all the reviews that I read, I thought that when I tried my buddy's game "Star Wars Episode I: Jedi Power Battles" on my step-brother's Dreamcast that it would [stink]completely... but in fact it was the exact opposite. All the reviews I read kept saying how "Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace" was way better than"Star Wars Episode I: Jedi Power Battles"... boy were those reviews experiencing strong cases of irony. "Jedi Power Battles" was a lot more fun than "The Phantom Menace", and it was at a good level of difficulty. Too bad I didn't beat it though, my step-brother doesn't have a Memory Card for his Dreamcast. If you're a HUGE fan of "Star Wars", then don't get this game... you'll end up destroying the game after you see how many pointless missions you have to go through and how many impossibly difficult leaders you have to face: 1) Jabba the Hut's champion fighter, 2) a huge and hairy beast, 3) a thief who stole a part from Anakin's podracer, 4) a Coruscant mercenary, 5) and ofcourse the incredibly powerful Darth Maul. Sure, it may SOUND easy, but wait till you hear this... you don't always play as Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi; in quite a few levels you are forced to play as Captain Panaka and even...gulp... Queen Amidala! Really, I'm not kidding.This game requires that you open an online account to play the game. A constant online source is required. Gave the game away.I just have to say one thing first: There clearly are not enough buttons on the N64 controller to make a decent variety of moves. Instead, in this game, there are about nine moves, most of them useless because they do so little damage. This alone makes this game so incredibly boring after two hours that I have to wonder what the creators were thinking when they made this game. Even multiplayer mode loses its appeal pretty quickly, because of the limited amount of moves. There are also a few too many items, and it really makes it less fair that you can use a big baseball bat or a lightsaber or a beamgun to help you win. Also, considering that the gameplay wasn't good enough, the fighting environment takes a new approach at trying to add lots of detail and affecting play, but most of the battle grounds are far too plain for what it is trying to attempt. But I will say that the game has incredible graphics, each character and scene developed beautifully. I also like that in practice mode, you can change the speed of the characters movement so it seems like slow motion. You can make the characters go at normal speed, or one-fourth of it, making for a great amount of Matrix-like suspense. The two challenge rounds are also a challenge, maybe too great a challenge, especially with characters like Yoshi, who don't get a jumping boost, but an egg to throw. The bottom line is, this game is simply a rental, because that is about the amount of time it will take you to get sick of this game. If there were more buttons on the N64 controller, and the game had more play modes, this game could have been pulled off very nicely, but for now, it's just a short rental.Duke Nukem is a pretty cool series.  I use to own some of the Nukem Games...I happen to buy this game along time ago at a game store called GameMax..They had it for 4 bucks...It was pretty sweet.  The graphics were terrible but Hey it was on the Play station.  The game play was kinda slow but still good.  I don't know if this is and edited copy of the game...I can tell you is that in this version I got for PS1 you do see women take there braws off when you pay em' cash..But they have stars...Literaly covering there nips..And it also has a type of color...The one that matches there bra..
The games violence is over the top.  But still it's a winner...I happen to like the N64 versio more then this even though there isn't Brief nudity like The ps1 version But in the N64 version there is more violence...The bodies explode when you shoot them again after there dead.  You can't do that in the PS1 version but that doesn't really matter.
Duke Nukem Total Meltdown is recomended for a mature audience since this game does have over the top pig exploding violence plus you go to an Adults Only Book store and there are half naked strippers with stars on them.
I had fun with this game.  It kinda pissed me off cause you didn't get to do all the stuff you can do in the PC version But I still liked it.  Over all it's a mediocer version.
I do not recomend this version at at all!  Get the PC version!  Or the N64...I donno I just liked that version.
It's a great Duke Nukem Game...
Later...THE GRAPHICS AREN'T TOO GOOD, THE CARS LOOK GREAT BUT ARE LOADED WITH MORE HANDLING PROBLEMS THAN EVER BEFORE, AND THE GAMEPLAY SUCKS. LET'S FACE IT, THE ONCE-GREAT RIDGE RACER SERIES IS NOW DEAD. AND THIS IS THE GAME THAT HELPED SEAL ITS FATE.I don't see all the hype in this portable gaming device. The games graphics are so terrible (So is Game Boy Advance). The only good Nintendo graphics is the brand new Nintendo DS which has Nintendo 64 graphics which isn't too shabby. But I really hate the Pocket and Color because it's a waste of money. Why would you get something in black and white with terrible graphics and then get one with only some colors (It's not that good) and plus the addition of bad graphics...now that's what I call a bad deal.The quality was listed as "Good"

It was on the poor side.

Analog feels broken, and a feels buttons are sticky.

But it did work 2/5It looked good, but the joy stick was broken.  I had to pay to get it fixed and it still won't be as good as it should be.I still haven't figured this one out. Did everything as instructed but the game never installed. Strange. Since I don't like to rate on something I couldn't get to work, I'll just say that I didn't like it because I couldn't get it to work :P For those that did manage to get it installed, I'm sure it's a great game. I had the first Dirt and it was a scream! Too bad this one bombed. Maybe a bad disc...I recieved this game for one of my birthday's many years ago. At first I was excited...but when I played it...oh boy. The Graphics were horrible, too rough and generic. To make matters worse, they looked like cheap cartoon drawings.

The missions were dull. Your first mission is to fly though magical rings. The Story is even worse, you have to save random civilians using various powers. The levels keep jumping, so your never in the same place.

The multiplayer was kinda fun, but it gets dull fast. Basicly, it shifts to fps and you shoot other people for points. other than that, this is probably the worst game I have ever played. Don't buy this game...rent it at most..or borrow it.It is no fault of the shipper but, MYST "WILL NOT work with Windows 7" so now I have a game that I cannot play. I am not sure if that is posted anywhere through out the purchasing process. But that is not what matters as I was the one who should have paid better attention. My own angst and irony have required me to post a 2 star rating.This game continues to haunt my memories as an irritation because of it's length and puzzles, which usually amounted to no more than treading back and forth across the island of Myst.  While the environments were increadibly beautiful, they fail to make up for the miserable gameplay, which has you go to one place at least 5 times to solve five different puzzles.  The story is intruiging, yet the game's ending fails to please the player, since, you'll discover shortly after completing it, it could be completed in a matter of minutes.

A good game for 10 to 20 dollars, but you shouldn't spend more than that on this weekend game.I can see why this game was so hyped in 1993.  CD-ROMs were cutting edge and the "slideshow" graphics are fairly good and so is the sound.  However, the story isn't as interesting as the ambiance would have you think and the movement is absolutely, irritatingly choppy.
I don't believe anyone has ever finished this game without some help.  There is too much slow clicking around and backtracking to keep the attention of even the dullest person.
I don't like having to resort to hints in order to play a game because it's released before the necessary technology is truely ready.
REALmyst?...I no longer care. Riven and Myst3?...even more clue-less and annoying, I'm sure.What what game I'm describing.  It's old, it's puzzling, and it's a blockbuster game.  It's, you guessed it, Myst.  And that is probably the easiest puzzle you'll get concerning Myst, too.  Since it is a popular game  that was released a quite a long time ago, you've probably heard of it by  now.  I'll just say this one thing:  If you're deaf or impatient, AVOID.  There is a puzzle that involves matching piano tones...heck, even if you're  NOT deaf, it's still quite a puzzler!  But don't fret...you can beat this  game in FIVE MINUTES if you know how, and it can be found in the many game  walk-throughs of the Internet.  After all, with the difficulty of THESE  puzzles, rest assured, you'll be looking for one!I really wanted to like Hexen 64. It's like a fantasy version of doom, and the storyline and atmosphere are damn good. You can play as a weak but magically powerful mage, a strong but magically weak fighter, or a balanced cleric. But this game has waaayyy too many problems. I didnt' even experience the jumping bug in the editorial review either. The first couple levels, i was hooked. It reminded me of warcraft II: trying to save your homeland from impending doom by ringing the bell and such was awesome. And the fact that the enemies teleport in only adds to the gameplay, as you never know whether you've cleared an area or not. The items are cool, and the mazelike and puzzle aspects woulld've been where it really shined, had they been done right.

unfortunately, not the case. Firstly, the horrible graphics reminded me of jurassic park on snes, as the entirely identical backgrounds provided with not-so-great maps caused me to get lost over and over again, thus killing the mood. Also, in the 4th level or so and on, you hit a switch, and it could open something up on a random spot in ANOTHER LEVEL. This caused me to give up, as i have no interest in searching a level over and over for some obscure doorway or whatever. Also, when i cheated to find the later levels wikthout said searching, i found the end-game bosses to be clones of the you!!! this is just lame imo, they couldn't even be bothered to make up cool end-game bosses? Also, jumping sucks ass in this game, so save often.Others have commented on the richness of the sound score, the sumptuousness of the graphics, and the immersion the puzzles provide for you.  All true.  But I find people's devotion to Riven and its predecessor  a bit overblown.
There are design faults here that should be pointed  out.  The 'slide-show' effect when moving probably does allow sufficient  computer memory for photo-realism while standing still, but it compromises  the realism that the producers were otherwise attempting.  Besides that,  it's simply annoying.  Some have said that it adds a certain elegance to  movement throughout the game, but I don't like seeing my surroundings  'melt' away as I move through them. Nor do I like sterile, empty  environments.  Oh sure, it all adds to the 'creepy' vibe the producers were  hoping for, but a universe which is largely uninhabited is mighty boring  after a few hours.  I wanted wayyyyy more interaction with people than I  got here.
I also wanted to understand why I was doing what I was doing.  Oh I could solve the puzzles, given gobs of time and guesswork, but at the  end I found the plot rather too spare for the amount of work invested.  If  I'm going to spend weeks solving puzzles, I better understand more at the  end of the story than at the beginning.  I'm not altogether sure that  happens here.  The universe here, for all of its graphical excellence,  left me hungry for more.  Clearly, this is an entertainment crafted by  fine artists rather than fine writers.  If you're happy with that  orientation, you'll be overjoyed with the final product.  But if, like me,  you want a game to surround you with an active, vibrant plot revealed by  characters of substance, Riven isn't much of an adventure.For years now,gamers have said that this is one of the greatest games ever made. I just don't understand why they think that is. Even for it's time,it was pretty dull and boring in my opinion. I remember dropping 50 bucks on this game when it first came out back in 1997,and being very dissapointed with it. The main problems I have with this game are the graphics(except the cinematics),the gameplay and some other elements. One of the main things that I hated about FF7 is,there is absolutley NO speech in this game at all. You have to read everything that the characters are saying. It gets very iratating VERY fast. All you do is read,read,read...and read some more. The combat system is way beyond confusing. It's all about they hit you,then you hit them,then they hit you with a strong attack and almost or completly kill you. The only good thing I can say about this game,is the cineamatics are beautiful. They are very nice to watch,but the characters and surrounding areas are very blocky looking...Overall,I give FF7 a two.The game itself is great, but Games for Windows Live is such a frustrating piece of garbage.  I wish it would just die and stop bringing down my PC gaming experience.WWF Attitude, although a good game don't get me twisted, was not worth it on the Playstation because of the incredible loading time. ... Seriously, if you picked Owen Hart, Gangrel, Road Dogg or even Kane or the Undertaker, you had to wait atleast 2 sometimes exceeds of 3-4 minutes just to get a match started. And if you picked a hardcore or cage match, sometimes, you had to wait even longer.
The trade off was truly not worth it for me because of that reason. Granted yes what you got on the Playstation version rather than the N64 version was better. PSone had more sounds, more create a wrestler options in the voice and music and some clothes. Because of PSone's memory capability, the game could have more and that was a definite plus over the 64.
I will admit that once you got the match started on the PSone version, the game itself was faster than N64's version but still, anyone could appreciate not having to wait 5 Minutes to play a simple game. The controls can be a little challenging at first but once you get it, you're golden and you don't have to worry about a thing.
For the game itself I will give a 4 star because it is still a fun game to play with your friends but because of the awful loading and wait time I give WWF Attitude a zero. ...The Resident Evil series has been on a steady decline since the first game came out in the mid-90's.  It seems that they make these games harder and harder than they should be and Code Veronica is no exception.  It's not the simplistic puzzles that make the game difficult, rather, it's the lack of ammo and healing items that make what what should be easy battles far more difficult than they should be.
Why do some zombies take more bullets than others?  Why do zombies respawn in some areas?  What's up with all the backtracking in this game?  You're still forced to use the stupid typewriter ribbons to SAVE?  These are some of the questions you'll ask yourself when you play the Code Veronica.  Has the series evolved?  If you get past the improved graphics, the answer is NO.  The control is just as sloppy as it was in RE1, albeit with a quick turnaround feature and a new two-handed gun mode (you burn through bullets faster this way).  A great deal of prior planning and trial and error is required, which may have been good back when the series was young, but it has simply gotten to be tedious today.
Even the soundtrack is pretty forgettable!  The game has a rather cartoonish look to it...could have looked more realistic but then again, the Dreamcast isn't exactly a graphics powerhouse.  My suggestion...don't buy it.  Granted, I've owned this game for quite some time and those who are new to DC may have heard great things about CV, but trust me, this is a BORING game!  Get Shenmue instead as that game simply plays better and has a better story!If you like the original Resident Evil you will probably like this one for the most part. However, I liked the original Resident Evil, but found: Code Veronica extremely annoying.
The annoying part has nothing to do with the game itself. The puzzles are a bit bothersome at times, but nothing to complain about. The graphics aren't bad and the story line works pretty well.
The BIG problem I have with the game is the play control. The editorial comment says "less than perfect controls", well that is an understatement. You have to hold down the right trigger to use your weapons, this makes firing while running and firing while retreating overly complex. Moreover, you have to go into the menu screen every time you want to pick up or use an item. There just had to be a better way.
Most of the time I would say that the play control only diminishes the fun of the game, but doesn't ruin it. However, in this instance it does. The control sucks the fun out of the game just as the zombies do the blood out of your neck, while you are fumbling around with the controller. The game isn't very difficult, but the play control makes the game more work then it is worth.I bought 4 of these, 1 of which was shipped to me with defects, and 2 more became defective within about 2 weeks of normal use. I would not recommend these to any one, but couldn't give a 1 star as1 of 4 cords still works fineI simply find the game ordinary and boring. I really love the TV-show and was very much looking forward to the game.
Man I was  dissapointed!
There is nothing new in the game. It is simply an ordinary  shoot 'em up including the characters from South Park.
Admitted: There  are a few funny features in the game, the cow-shooting gun, Mr. Hanky the  christmas Poo but even these things gets quite boring after a very short  while.
My advise is: Enjoy the TV-show and use your playstation for  something else.Plodding first-person shooter with tons of fog to conceal thegraphic weaknesses.  One-player missions are tedious.  Only redeemingfeature is to play the two-player game with other "South Park" fans, and then only if you've gotten the codes to unlock favorite characters.
Even with friends, you'll tire of it in a day.This was one of the first games i remember playing on the Playstation. So i wanted to replay it and i was very frustrated. I never finished the game back then and it was a big pain finishing it this time around. a lot of backtracking and poor inventory setup. I still think its one of the few titles for the playstation that you should give a try. I ordered it used and it came on time and i had no problem with the CD during gameplay.Resident evil 2, may i say, is one of the best games of all time.  So was re1, re0, and re code veronica.  But not resident evil 3.  First of all, whats with the difficulty mode?!!  U either put it on easy and it starts u with enough ammo to finish the rest of the game with, or u put it on hard and it makes it so u barely have enough.  But the worst part is the tyrant.  It chases u so u barely have a chance to explore.  It literally follows u through doors and into new areas constantly!  He's hard to kill and always comes back.  Plus he can kill u in one or two hits and is fast.  It takes away from the fun of the game.  Forget this game and try resident evil 2 or one of the others..... you will thank me later.What the Resi series of games does, it does well - OTT Hollywood-style scares and genetically-mutated things that go Bump In The Night. RE 3 is no different, providing more of the same for fans who love it. It also boasts one or two gameplay improvements, but somehow can't quite get back to the glory days of the first 2 games in the series.
The plot follows the heroine from the first game, Jill, 24 hours before and after the devastating outbreak of the T-Virus in RE 2. A novel concept, and one which Capcom surely intended to exploit fully. The inclusion of the Nemesis character, a Frankenstein-like monster who relentlessly pursues you from start to finish, is also a nice twist, adding much-neede dtension to the game whenever he makes an appearance. The menus and controls are also tweaked, most notably the inclusion of the 'Turn' and 'Dodge' features, which, if learned properly, add hugely to the gameplay.
Graphically RE 3 is as good as RE 2. It's as detailed, and lush as before. The intro is strangely disappointing, being lo-res and choppily animated - the PlayStation 1's power is being overused. The sound is good, though, and the gameplay is the best possible version of an imperfect control system.
The problems with RE 3 lie mainly in the game's production. It's nigh-on impossible to keep track of yourself for the first thirty minutes or so, and the map for this portion of the game is difficult to spot. The baddies are souped-up versions from the previous games and are actually too difficult to kill initially. You waste precious ammo and health packs before you realise that you can take multiple paths. Also, Nemesis, though an excellent inclusion, is again too intense for the early stages of the game, and more often than not you'll find yourself cursing Capcom while waiting for your game to reload after he's dispatched you. Again.
As the game continues, you realise that the baddies have an unfair advantage over you, and you will end up running past the majority of them. The satisfaction of knowing a Zombie is cornered just isn't there anymore. You also miss out on some beautiful backdrops and vitally important clues becuase you're too busy avoiding some ridiculously over-populated area.
A vast, sprawling game that does yield some rewards for die-hard fans, RE 3 is not a good way to introduce yourself to the series because of its unforgiving difficulty. The storyline may also confuse newcomers. If you're a fan who doesn't mind being confused and frustrated, then check it out. If not, wait for something better, like Code: Veronica, or anything in the Silent Hill series.Although I most confess that I did enjoy this game at first (At first, meaning from beginning to end), I was happy with big areas to explore, and really enjoyed the Nemesis (although it was no more different that that bald stalking guy of the inverted RE2) hunting you down, I most say this game is a fraud in what concerns story line structure, which on its own right, is the main mover of any story-based game.
  I'm going to simulate here the general structure RE3 (and RE2 and RE, although this is acceptable in the original game) follows: "So, how did these creatures end up here? let's search the whole place while we try to get out of here. Look out! (Lots of guns, blood and guts follow) Wow Jill, that was close! Hey, he was supposed to be our friend! He turns out to be a traitor! Hey look, a secret lab within the main place, (House, Police Station, City or any other place of your fancy) let's check it out! Oh no, this is the truth behind the monsters! We most stop Umbrella. Darn! This place is about to explode, let us get out of here! Look out, a big mean monster! (More guns, blood and guts follow) Yeah! We did it! Our heroes escape a few seconds before the whole place blows up. Fin" Wow, we have a new Resident Evil game here!
  My point here is: This game features the same story line structure of the past two games, only this time we get to play before and after RE2. That dirty trick was Capcom's strategy to make the game's storyline a little bit different and engrossing.
  I can't comment on Code Veronica, for I haven't played it yet, but I think I will do so when it gets out for the PS2, but for what I can see, the RE series is going down the drainage. I will consider Resident Evil 4 depending on many aspects. I might be playing this game (along with RE2) again when I get me a PS2, but surely, I won't touch it again in the near future.
  There is more to horror gaming than just guns, blood, guts and linear story line.Back in 1996, Capcom introduced  both Japanese and Americans gamers a brand-new world of videogaming. Despite the rather awkward name of "Resident Evil", which is just plain out laughable, the title has become a household name. This movie-like, horror series can be written down as a new genre of gaming, horror. Yeah, very few games caused gamers to devastatingly sob (Aeries' funeral in Final Fantasy VII), some games built mystery or suspense (Gray Fox's desperate attack and impressive dialogue in Metal Gear Solid), but Resident Evil led the player to leap in fright or frantically jitter. Capcom inserted blood-thirsty zombies as the adversary, and the player's fear as the biggest opposition. In a sense, it is a movie.  Useless to say, Resident Evil was among the titanic series that landed on the Sony PlayStation. The original game presented an amazing surface. However it suffered from terrible voice acting and a somewhat dull story. Capcom extremely went hard at work for their sequel. Powerful hype erupted when Resident Evil 2 was announced. Anxious gamers couldn't wait to get their grubby paws on a copy. Resident Evil 2 altered the gaming industry. Other home console companies decided to cash in while the genre was sizzling hot. Konami cashed in with Silent Hill. Survival/Adventure games went mainstream.  After RE2 respectfully lived, a third installment was introduced, this time hype was scarce. It came out too quickly and sources claimed the interface was going to be identical as the other two. Fearing the worst, the third installment seemed to be a horrible move for Capcom.  And is.  From the experience of the two Resident Evil games, the player may expect the "scare moments." While playing on a big screen t.v., with surround sound, the volume almost reverberating the room, and a sudden pack of grunting zombies crashing out a window, I felt no fear. Amateurs to the Resident Evil series may have a chill ride their spine, but original fans will expect each scare attempt. Though few changes have been added, RE3 fails to take a leap over the original Resident Evil 2. In other words just imagine playing Resident Evil 2 but with more rooms and more puzzle solving.  RE2 is the strongest and most remembered in the series. When catching a glimpse of RE3, excitement was absent. RE3 seems it brought the entire series in shame. The story must take a new direction! Like taking a role of an umbrella agent, or the T-Virus spreading somewhere else than Racoon City. Nemesis, a ferocious, mean, bazooka- equipped devil who hunts the player, proves to be a pathetic antagonist and challenge.  The minigames granted after beating the game bring little life at the game's abrupt end. The slogan, "if the Suspense doesn't kill you, then something else will," lives truly in the second game.Sega finally got it right with the Dreamcast despite the Nintendo knock off controllers.  This was Sega's last effort in the console wars but we all know how that turned out.  By Sega, makes so good games on Nintendo.Finally, Sega releases a video game system that rises above mediocrity!  Sega is famous for all kinds of failed (and embarrassing) video game consoles they brought to the world, but this time they actually "kind of" got it right with the Dreamcast.

Unfortunately, Sega made a gigantic mistake that almost immediately brought down any chance of the Dreamcast becoming a success.  They chose to release the Dreamcast in late 1999.  Gaming fans vividly remember what happened to the Sega Saturn just a couple years before, and people weren't going to be fooled again.  This was now or never for Sega.  If the Dreamcast failed, Sega would be gone from the hardware market forever.

The release date for the Dreamcast was getting closer and closer.  It was in September of 1999.  People were still very happy with their Playstation One because 1999 was one of Sony's highlights for spectacular and revolutionary gaming.  That wasn't the only thing going on.  Sony fans were also anticipating the release of the Playstation 2, which was guaranteed to become the dominant console thanks to the relentless power and popularity the Playstation One was responsible for.  It was during this time Sony was far and away the most powerful company in the video game business.  Sega saw trouble ahead but continued to move forward with the expected Dreamcast release date.

Nintendo was also very much alive and in the big picture with the Gamecube.  Nintendo was content on making sure their fans would NOT be disappointed with the Gamecube the way they were with the N64.  Nintendo fans are loyal.  *Nothing* can knock out Nintendo.  Nintendo recognized their mistake with the N64 and knew they could make it right again.  They knew they could give the Playstation 2 a run for its money (and looking back, Nintendo did just that).

And so, the release date for the Dreamcast arrived.  With Nintendo and Sony on top of their game, what would happen?  What would happen to Sega?  The Dreamcast would hit the market and... nothing.  No sound.  No noise.  So little was said about the Dreamcast on the release date that it was like Sega had died right then and there.  An eerie silence for a company that gave the world Sonic the Hedgehog.

The Dreamcast failed because there were already more than enough successful gaming consoles on the market in 1999, and people didn't want the Dreamcast to interfere with the superior, soon-to-be-released Sony and Nintendo gaming systems.  Sega also failed because of their long, frustrating history of ripping people off with unsatisfactory video game systems (such as the Sega CD and Sega Saturn).  Sega would fool people into thinking they had something extraordinary in the works... only to end up not supporting it.  They had trouble supporting the video game consoles they created and would often leave people with failed attempts and false hopes.  Sega would always fall asleep on the job.  This would happen time and time again, with Sega hoping the brain-dead masses would buy their average, incomplete gaming consoles.  It's like the people who worked for Sega would always say "let's start something and not finish it".

When Sega failed YET AGAIN with the Saturn, people finally couldn't TAKE anymore.  Anyone who was still a Sega fan by that point pretty much lost all hope.  Sega was now the enemy and they had to go.  A gaming console needs a giant selection of games, and unfortunately Sega only understood that ONE TIME in their lackluster history (with the Genesis).  Every other console they released only had a few classics to choose from among a bunch of average games.

In the case of the Dreamcast, Sega tried to support it but it was too late.  Sony had defeated them.  Sony had defeated BOTH the Saturn and the Dreamcast with the overpowering success of the Playstation One.  Hard to believe but it's true: the Playstation One knocked out BOTH the Saturn and the Dreamcast  off the market, making both of those consoles nothing more than a disappointing memory for Sega fans.

In 1999, Sega knew they wouldn't be able to compete with the Playstation 2, so they finally did the right thing in early 2001 by announcing that they would never again make another video game console.  Sega was DONE.  They admitted defeat.  That, my friends, made milions and millions of people very happy.  No more junk on the market.  That announcement was the best thing that could have happened, and if you happened to glance outside that day you would have noticed the sun smiling down on everyone.

That meant no more arrogant Sega promotion.  I used to hate the way Sega would always promote their games by putting down Nintendo and Sony.  Now I can laugh at it.  Sega really thought they could trick people into buying their crappy games by constantly making fun of Nintendo and Sony.  Didn't work.  Nintendo and Sony fans are too smart and considerate for that immature nonsense.  I bet everyone responsible for the Playstation's creation were laughing in piles of money over the "fly, play thing, fly" commercial that Sega created in an attempt to make Sony look second-rate.  Ha!  That ugly, gray-colored box destroyed both the Saturn and the Dreamcast, and I hope Sega fans never forget it.

It's almost 2007 and people are STILL talking about the Gamecube and Playstation 2.  Why?  Because they are successful video game consoles.  People will look back and REMEMBER them as successful consoles.  No one remembers that the Dreamcast tried to compete with them at one point.  People forgot the Dreamcast even EXISTED when the year 2002 came around.  Sega's video game consoles immediately became dated and forgettable once companies stopped making games for them.  If Sega had put less energy into putting down the competition and more energy into offering their customers *complete* and enjoyable gaming consoles, maybe they'd still be around today.  As it stands, they deserved to watch Nintendo and Sony destroy them.  Nintendo and Sony didn't have to stoop to dirty tactics to win over fans and the world is now a better place.

With the release of Nintendo's new revolutionary Wii system coming to America this November, along with the Playstation 3, we don't have to laugh at Sega's silly attempt to compete only to end up being the laughing stock of the world.  Goodbye Sega.I bought the dreamcast with high hopes. Mostly because of Street fighter and sonic games. The only good games are Sonic Adventure 2 and Dead or Alive 2. Sega has made systems that all have failed. Like the recent Saturn. For the first couple of days its good.
Cons:
Very Loud
Not may places to rent games
Not many games
Not many demo disks
Pros:
Good Graphics
Easy Controls
Easy to hook up
Easy to hall around
Overall the dreamcast stinks. If your looking for a system with fair graphics,lots of games,good games,easy control i'd buy the playstation.You know, sitting behind a computer screen, I'm glad no one can see the look of disappointment that appeared on my very face the minute I began playing Tekken 3. I am incredibly disappointed that after reading so many positive reviews claiming Tekken 3 to not only be a significant improvement over the previous two Tekken games, but also tagged "the ultimate tournament fighter" that the actual game would turn out to be *so* underwhelming.

Tekken 3 really surprised me. But don't take that as a compliment. I went into Tekken 3 with hardly any experience with fighting games whatsoever. I took a break for 10 years with tournament fighters after all those lousy 2D Mortal Kombat games brought me to tears. Back then I figured "okay, either I don't like fighting games or maybe I just don't like the Mortal Kombat series". This was when Mortal Kombat 2 and 3 were popular on the Super NES and Genesis.

A lot can change with a human being in 10 years. We grow older, we decide we want to learn about life and wonder where we came from, and we develop an apprecation for the things we have and the people who are in our lives. To put it simply, we're thankful to be alive and feel good. But in some situations, things can remain EXACTLY the same. All those extreme feelings of hatred returned to me immediately after only 5 minutes with Tekken 3. It was the exact same feeling of hopelessness I encountered with the Mortal Kombat series.

I really have no idea what went wrong. No, not with the game, I mean, what went wrong with ME. Seeing as how I love watching people fight and kick butt on TV shows and movies, I figured it was only natural that the fighting style in the world of video games would appeal to me. Appeal to me a LOT. That was my assumption. But apparently it STILL hasn't happened. Tekken 3 was supposed to help me wash away all the bad memories of playing old Mortal Kombat games and give me a fresh start and hopefully help me develop an appreciation for the ever-popular genre of games known as "tournament fighters". Nope. It's really disappointing to me to find out that Tekken 3 is just as bad as the rest of the fighters I've played, and basically the same thing but with improved graphics, for that matter. All fighting games feel the same to me. It doesn't even matter if they are 2D or 3D fighters.

Tekken 3, despite all the positive reviews, does NOT appeal to me whatsoever. The fighting is really clunky, and it seems each fighter delivers very basic and boring moves to each other. It's not interesting or inspiring at ALL to me. It's boring to watch, and even more boring to play. Why is it so much fun when they fight this way in movies but *not* interesting when it's time to do the same thing in a video game? I have no idea. If you want to pull off the really impressive looking moves in Tekken 3, you have to press a bunch of buttons on the controller in a really complicated way in order to complete a move that COULD have been made *much* easier with a very simple and quick sequence of buttons. Strong emphasis on the word "simple". Many moves actually require you to press the Circle button, and then jump over to the Square button. How is someone supposed to easily master this? Going from Circle to Square is NOT easy.

You see, for each of the ten characters in the game, they have major power moves that are very important to master because these are the moves that are supposed to cause the most damage to an opponent. However, many of these moves are incredibly difficult and sophisticated to pull off, and this is a *really* bad thing because the company responsible for this game apparently doesn't understand the importance of making a fighting game easy to master for everyone, of all ages. That way, young and old people alike can appreciate the Tekken style.

It really bothers me how ALL of the developers who release fighting games assume the player is automatically completely aware how to play the game. They assume this *every single time* they release a fighting game. Developers assume everyone who plays these kind of games will be able to understand them instantly. We're supposed to be gifted players when it comes to understanding how to successfully pull off any number of lengthy and devestating combos to our opponents. We're supposed to have enough time to press really awkward button combinations on the Playstation controller during a fast-paced and intense fighting match. Not just combos either- regular moves too. We're supposed to have enough patience to continue trying the same fight over and over as we die a million times and the frustration factor increases significantly, and we realize just how IMPOSSIBLE these kind of games are.

Well, I have news for every developer out there: many of us have a really difficult time with games like this. Not everyone who plays fighting games should automatically be expected to be a skilled player. Not all of us hang out at local arcades wasting tons of quarters as we try and perfect our skills. Some of us are, you know, average "normal" gamers who just like to have fun. The developers of tournament fighters NEVER could understand this, and years later, they still can't understand what it's like to have fun. We shouldn't have to be a genius to play a fighting game. Not all of us can press the EXACT moves at the EXACT moment and win fights. Maybe one day a tournament fighter will be invented for a gaming console that will be specifically designed to be playable for people who struggle with them. Maybe one day...

Other things I don't like about Tekken 3. Despite having excellent graphics, the music is a bunch of horrible, repetitive techno sounds that hardly make me feel compelled to continue playing the game. Oh, and by the way, even though the graphics are really a notch above the rest, there's absolutely no reason to jump with joy when looking at them. Since the fighting is just as basic and uninspiring as that of, oh I don't know, Killer Instinct (another terrible game) you quickly stop caring about how the game looks. In fact, I'd say the fighting engine is EXACTLY like that old Super Nintendo game Killer Instinct. Extremely uninteresting. When someone throws a punch, it's so boring to watch that you just don't care about it. That's what Tekken 3 is all about. Having a fighting engine that's so boring you don't even care if you win or lose.

I'm disappointed. That's the only thing I can say at the moment. Maybe one day an easy tournament fighter will hit the market where the main purpose of the game is to have the computer opponents move along at a reasonable pace for all the normal people out there who constantly struggle with fighting games. A game that will give people the much needed time and patience to put a move on their opponent. A game where you aren't expected to hurry up just to deliver a simple move. Somehow, despite hundreds of tournament fighters that will eventually hit stores, I doubt this will ever happen. I will never buy another tournament fighter again. Ever.Sonic Adventure is a game that tries to do way too much. There are six characters and only one (sonic) is decent. Most of the game is boring and the rest is usually to broken to be any fun.

The Sonic level's, which should have been the entire game, are plagued with a broken camera (it was on crack, sometimes it would focus inside a wall) and bugs. The boss battles are way to easy, and when you started to pick up speed I felt like the game was playing itself (I tried to fail on the whale level and it was impossible). Plus the sonic story is super short. I didn't really like the other game stories.

In the Tails levels you just replay the same levels as sonic but you can fly. The camera and bugs are even worse here.
The E-102 Gamma levels are a super generic shoot-em up game.
In Knuckles level's you search for gems in a map and is very tiresome.
In Amy's level you pretty much just walk around and hit enemies with a hammer, it gets old very fast.
I save the worst for last Big the cat. His levels are just a fishing mini-game. There's nothing special at all, just a boring fishing game, way to go sonic team.

Most of Sonic adventure you play boring sub characters, and when you do get to play as sonic, it's too short and plagued with too bug to be any fun. This is by far the most overpraised Dreamcast game out there.I really love platform games. I guess it is because I love to explore and make my way through those cool-looking worlds. And I have to tell you, Sonic Adventure's worlds look great. This was the very first 128 bit game I had played and boy, was I excited. The game really disappointed and annoyed me however.
After playing through the game a bit, you will start to realize that after the fun action stages, you will begin a squence of boring and annoying cut-scenes (that you can't skip) that will drive you mad. Most of them involve sonic and Robotnik threatening each other, or just characters talking. Also, the characters will pause between almost every sentence. It takes forever for them to finish what they are saying, and you won't really care most of the time. Boring. If you make it through the cut-scenes, then you wander through the adventure stages, looking for the next action stage. Mainly by going to a red hint sphere that will say something like "Have you searched the entire adventure stage yet?"
When you find another action stage, things will get a bit better, but only for a while. Some of the cool things you can do are snowboard, speed through a futuristic highway. Cool. But, then it is back to boredom and the annoying voices (especially tails.) If you are a real platfor fan, skip this one and get Rayman 2. It may not be super-fast, but it sure isn't boring. And it has better worlds and graphics.A fun shoot 'm up, no less, and regrettably, no more. Fans of the board game, the series, or even the role- playing game will be in for a bit of a dissapointment.  The game  has few options besides "click and shoot".  Still, I spent a fun few hrs playing it (and a lotta dlrs buying it).
I hope we'll get a better, more extensive version soon.Silent Hill in space and just about as annoying. I understand the tension that the developers were trying to create and they succeed but this is ridiculous.  Constantly low on ammo with weapons so defective the manufacturers would be promptly put out of business all the while being attacked by hordes of wrench wielding, regenerating zombies.  You aint gotta chance and thank heavens for cheats or I wouldn't be bothered.  If you could get it for under 10 bucks go for it and kill some time.  But I sure wouldn't spend the money that is being demanded on Amazon.i don't know if i have the wrong codes to install but i cant get it to work but probably works ok and im just not getting it right.The Dark Forces may be the best first-person action video game, but it gets Marred by MOS.  It was too easy to kill myself in MOS simply by force jumping.  I died a hundred times because there was something overhead when  I jumped.  Once I died because I jumped straight up, but took damage from  the fall.  Another time I was on this ledge and couldn't get back up--every  time I jumped, I would bounce off the wall and die.  When I went to several  web sites to get help on how to get off that ledge, the best that I could  find was 'it is tricky' to get off the ledge.  After dying several hundred  times I got bored and quit.  I've never gone back.I can't play this because the system requirements are older than my system.  I did not notice the requirements until I had bought it and tried to play it.  I wish there was a Game of Life on CD that was compatible with Windows 7.I was very disappointed in this PC game.  It was boring.  Everything about the game was chance.  You have little control over what happens.  Game time is short and it is very likely you did not win anyway. It was a waste of my time.  If you really think you need this game - buy it used or at least a new one cheap.this was really highly reccomended by several but was a major dissapointment=after playing world war 11 fighters I guess I got spoiled=the sound and special effects just were not there.flight control not bad=I have more than enough system requirements to handle any game out there=as I said, a really ho hum game!On the face of things, "X-Wing Alliance" has the makings of an extraordinary entry into the Star Wars franchise.  The characters are engaging, with enough backstory given in the accompanying written material  to start a small movie.  Conveniently, there *is* actually a small movie  which opens the game off with a real narrative bang.  It makes one wish  that Lucas himself had taken a page from the game producers when he was  making _The Phantom Menace_.
Unfortunately, after this high point, the  game soon degenerates into endless missions which advance the  plot--painfully slowly.  Oh, there are cool points along the way.  The cut  scenes are interesting, and the sound environment throughout the missions  is superb.  But the in-play graphics engine is fairly ordinary by  LucasArts' own standards.  The missions themselves are endless variations  on the same themes.  And the game's conclusion is less than satisfactory.
But there's another side to the game--multiplayer action--and for this  the game deserves some praise.  As a vehicle for capturing the gaming  possibilities of the Net, "X-wing" is worth the purchase price.  There's a large, loyal player base for the whole "X-wing" series,  so you'll never be alone on the Net.
Still, there are better options to  get what you want out of a Star Wars game.  "Rogue Squadron" is  an infinitely better single-player space game.  And the upcoming  "Force Commander" promises to be something of a new standard in  multiplayer action.  By comparison, "X-wing Alliance" merely  feels like a solid update to an aging series.With a form-factor nearly identical to the original PlayStation  controllers (but minus the analog sticks of the "Dual Shock"  controller), this controller's obvious benefit is to owners of  "Connectix Virtual Game Station", the PlayStaiton-on-Macintosh  emulator.  It's also handy for arcade-y titles and MacMAME, the emulator of  classic arcade video games.
The one place Gravis makes a change is very  much for the worse -- the four separate directional buttons are replaced by  a single pivoting directional-pad.  As too often happens with designs like  this, the D-pad pushes two switches at once, and ALWAYS comes through as a  diagonal (eg, right + up, when you thought you were just pushing right).  The frequent inability to enter a true right, left, up, or down is annoying  in some games, particularly in navigating the menus of an RPG, and deadly  in others (PSX "Asteroids" is unplayable when rotating your ship  sometimes inadvertantly puts you into hyperspace, since that's what  "up" does).
Also of note is the fact that this controller works  only with games written to use Apple's "InputSprockets".  That's  true of most late 90's / early 2000's games, but not of some earlier titles  ("Descent", which used to be bundled with Mac Performas, comes to  mind), and it's not clear if Sprockets will be supported in the upcoming  Mac OS X.
That said, driver installation is easy and has been hassle-free  on my two iMacs and my iBook.  USB plug-and-play almost always works  without a snap, though I've found it's better to plug it in once the Finder  is up instead of during the boot cycle.
If you play lots of Mac games  (and by the way... HOW?!), this is better than relying on mouse/keyboard  alone, but the D-pad problems are a major aggrivation.This will get the job done on most games, however if you want to play games like Street Fighter or any other game that requires directional based special moves, you can forget it.
Software on the site allows you to program special move buttons.
The buttons are terrible.  They 'mush' down.  They are not springy as they should be.This thing is very comfortable, for the week or so that it works!  Like some of the other reviewers, and other people I know that own these, the Z button is a BIG problem.  After the week or so that I said it will work, the Z button caves in, and there is no real way to get it out.  I tried taking it apart. and it didn't really help.  The rest of the controller, however, was better than the original.  But many games can't be played (at least to their fullest) without the Z button!  It might be more comfortable and accessible, but it's still a horrible product!  What a joke.  InterAct should be ashamed.  FOR GOD SAKES, BUY THE REAL CONTROLLER!!!Sure it was fun for the first hour then it died. I could never get the kids to stop vandalism. Riding the rollercoasters weren't fun at all. You want a theme park game get Rollercoaster tycoon. Rollercoaster tycoon not Rollercoaster tycoon 2, but I won't get into that. Where can I get a refund....?I guess you could say that this game was pretty much a dissappointment. I probably would have liked it more if I hadn't already bought Rollercoaster Tycoon (even though I'm not really a fan of that game, it's a LOT better than Sim Theme Park). I felt ripped off when I found out that there were only four theme parks to choose from, which made this a very short lasting game. Another major problem is - you can even build your own rides! Talk about cheap.
Overall I give Sim Theme Park 2 stars, I gave the extra star because I probably would have liked it more if I got it before I got Rollercoaster Tycoon. Actually, this game is pretty good for all ages, it's just leaning a little more towards the younger kids, about I guess 6-12. If you want a game for older gamers, try Rollercoaster Tycoon. (I suggest that you just ditch the thought of buying a game about building amusement parks and get a game like The Sims or somehting).Sim ThemePark was not what I saw coming. Right when I got it, I popped it into the CD-Rom on the computer. I was so excited! But then, the downside comes along. The installation takes forever. I had to try again to make it work. Then, it takes forever just to get into the game. And when I finally got into the game, the colors were all screwed up. Okay, so I messed with some hardware on the computer, but even after my mom fixed it, they still wouldn't work right!! And whenever I go into the game, it gets stuck right after I click "quit". So I have to restart the computer completely. Since the day I first got this, this game has not seen the CD-Rom. At all. I am looking into Roller Coaster Tycoon, and am hoping that it will work much better than this. Thank you for reading my review!I LOVED Theme Park and Theme Hospital, RCT is the best Sim game around so I had high hopes that Theme Park World (as its called in the UK) would go one step further.
Basically this is a kiddies game. Its NOTHING like  Theme Park and your very limited to what you can do. There are fun rides  and the best part is walking round the park and going on your rides but you  don't have the same amount of control as in RCT.
Its nice to look at  (although I didn't like the 3D style) and you need a good spec machine  otherwise expect jerkovision (or if you build too many rides). Theres only  4 parks/scenarios!  unlike RCT where there are loads plus an add on pack).  My nephew liked taking pictures of the park and emailing them but it has  taken a whole new view point into Sim games. This isn't a true Sim game  -  I think we need a bit of going back to basics here and seeing what makes a  Sim game. Just look at Theme Hospital and RCT. It also loses marks for  having the only online help assistant who is more annoying then the  MS-Office Paperclip one! (Luckily you can turn him off!)
I stopped  playing it after a week. So will true Sim Fans. Bring on another RCT add on  pack!Well there's a lot of ways this game could have been fun, IF only they had tried to put more into it, ok it says on the front box that you can chose from 4 different types of parks, In reality all the parks are the same,  just different animation, they all have a feris wheel, flying bird thing,  ect... The little talking advisor cannonball in the corner is insanely  inoying, and yet they make it so that you HAVE to have him to play the  game, other wise you'll not be able to get to problems in time. I mean are  programers IDIOTS?  Do they think that a little cannonball making bad  jokes and talking in the most annoying voice you have ever heard is what we  really want to have as an advisor? And why do they animate the kids and  everything in the cut sceens so unrealistic and stupid looking? In almost  every game programers feel that they need to make humans look as stupid as  possible, why? Its not funny, it demotes the animators intelegence. Anyways  the only thing thats really good about it is that you can ride your own  roller coasters, and you can turn the little cannonball guy off!  Although it will be harder to manage without him.In the exact sense of the word, the game cheated me. The suspense built up by the time you finish the third level culminates in one of the most shocking and innovative pieces of plot I have seen to date. What's the  problem? The remainder of the plot is a piteous attempt to bring the  innovation and tie it onto the "and all was well" ending.
The  graphics are amazing, although there is way too much green, and you spent  less time in original-looking levels than in the "normal" ones.  Nevertheless, from the beginning, they look quite surreal and amazingly  life-like. More than that - they are aesthetic. The main character is  pretty much non-existent, snce he has no lines, and his only role in the  game is to capture monsters. The battle engine offers far too few choices,  since upgrading your character's equipment is nonsense (he rarely enters  actual combat), and you can't equip your monsters. Therefore, the game's  central and only concept is to go through level after level, capturing and  merging monsters. There's nothing more to the game. Oh, yes, there are  several original parts (you earn money by selling the captured monsters),  but they are too few.I'm not very happy with this because it wouldn't not load onto my computer and I tried everything I could to try to get it to load no such luck. I got to the point where I just gave up and put it on a shelf and that's where it is but every time i walk past it I get so upset that i spent money on a game that won't load on my computer. What a waste of moneyEven when this game first came out, it was fairly mediocre.  Let's move on, shall we?  There are many, many games that topple Half Life and Counter Strike released since 1998.
Contrary to what the Amazon editorial had to say about this game, Half Life is not the bloodiest (Soldier of Fortune), is not the smartest (No One Lives Forever), and is not the scariest (System Shock 2 or Clive Barker's Undying).
Half Life is a hypefest.I would probably have had more fun if I hadn't used Age of Empire II before this one. Age of Empire II/Conqueror has so many more functionalities. Not having these functionalities requires much more manual 'handling'. For instance, in AOE II, double-clicking on a unit will select all units of that type present on the screen. It wouldn't work with this version, very annoying. I played 15 hours, just to give it a fair chance, then I gave up. The disk will be forgotten in a drawer, too bad.I recieved this older game quickly. But I was still playing the new Tomb Raider on PS3 and did not install it on y PC for a couple of weeks. I could not get this agme to work properly on my new computer. It loaded fine and background music worked but the graphics were .. hmm .. stone age looking. No matter how I tried to reconfigure my graphic card it would not adjust to be playable graphics. I deleted it from my computer. I gave it to my son to try and load on his slightly older system, but he hasn't tried to play yet because he is playing his new games. I will update and post what he says about his experience with it.The graphics and gameplay are very out dated. The movies at the end are stupid and only the first eight players have them. The only reason I even got this game is because I loved Tekken 2,3,Tag, and 4. The only reason I don't sell this is I want to have all the tekkens, but if you want to buy it, don't pay more than $2 for it.I loved the first two Gabriel Knight games ("Sins of the Father" and "The Beast Within"). They were creepy, well-researched, and had great atmosphere.
Well, "Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned" had great potential -- Rennes-le-Chateau and vampires! Neat! But poor gameplay really squandered that potential.
To give you an example of what I mean, one of the puzzles involves getting a vehicle so Gabriel can get from one place to another. A perfectly good motor scooter (I think; it's been a while) is available. But noooooo ... Gabriel refuses to ride something so wussy. He has to have a big motorcycle. So that's the puzzle -- getting the selfish jerk a motorcycle to ride.
Let me get this straight. He's a detective trying to solve a case, but he's going to waste time finding a cooler ride?
That was the point where I threw the game out the window, so I can't comment on how it ends, unfortunately. The voice acting was pretty lame; I don't know who told Tim Curry he could do a New Orleans accent, but he can't.
Now that [the price has dropped], it's worth trying if you're really into Gabriel Knight. Otherwise, there are much better adventure games out there that are also dirt cheap. Try one of them.Breath of Fire Three is the third part to what was a very good series of RPGs. Breath of Fire One seems to be what most people I talk to about games  consider the best. Even though I loved Breath of Fire 2 the most. I  expected a lot from breath of fire 3. Perhaps this helped lower my opinion  of Breath of fire 3, but I did not like this game.
As far as game play  goes like all BoF games in BoF 3 you have the ability to turn into a  dragon. Like BoF 1 and unlike BoF2 when you turn into a dragon you stay one  for a while. While you're a dragon you loose MP every turn to keep you from  staying one forever in that combat unlike BoF 1. All the character seem to  get their own special power. The character list is short and one of the  characters on the list of the book never fights with you as a character.  The training system you can find people to help you with is actually kind  of pointless weird and honestly I didn't like it. The town to town walking  is slow and you never get fast transportation.
As far as plot goes the  plot is the plot starts off okay. Then about two hours in goes in a  different direction. It is fine for a while then but around the end is a  large dungeon that is boring to go threw and leaves the any not very much  of a climax. They lost any suspense you could have built up similar to the  Tales Of Destiny ending. Also the characters don't have very strong and  noticeable personalities. Also if you keep up with it you won't like the  direction the plot takes thirds of the way threw.
As far as control goes  it's basically standard of with noting exceptionally notable about  it.
The graphics to this game are not very good. It is done in sprites.  Sometimes I myself prefer sprits but I do not like the character drawings  of this game. On the walking town to town map character looks chubby and  short. The drawings are basic and too simple. There was only one of the  dragons I liked the look of. However there is a little onion that can  follow around with your party who beat all other RPGs in cuteness of a  single character. The cute hopping onion is defiantly the main reason to  buy this game if you do.
And finally as far as length of time it can stay  interesting the game is longer them many RPGs won't be beaten on a short  rental. If you get this game buy it.
Overall this game is the worst of  the BoF series. I don't recommend buying it unless its finishes some  collection you are working on, or if you have to see a hopping onion follow  people around.If a game doesn't hook me within the first half-hour then I'm just not going to see it through to the end. Homeworld just seemed like Age of Empires: In Space to me and the slow, confusing gameplay really got on my nerves. I know that this game has an Army of fans who will denounce my comments, but I simply could not get into it.

Usually, I like space games and I was hoping that this would have a Star Trek-ish feel to it. I also quite the Wing Commander games and since it only cost me 99p then I thought I might as well give it a go. Call me shallow, but it didn't give me instant satisfaction and uninstalled it after only 45 minutes.This is a joke of a game. Let's see, a campaign can be finished in an hour. The AI makes you conclude that enemy fighter pilots have a deep vindictive nature (is mine the only plane in the sky?). All in all, this game is like a new level of computer chess--boring as hell, and yet somehow intelligently scripted [SCRIPTED]!The expansion was outsourced to Sierra Online and the quality from Diablo I was not maintained.
The expansion does not really add anything: monsters seem out of touch, music, ending are nothing compared to the original. Skip this and go straight from Diablo to Diablo II which is another pure marvel.On paper Hellfire seems like a great idea. Take a really good game, add a couple additional levels, quests, items and monsters, put in a couple of new classes, and bam: instant winner.

Sadly that doesn't pan out in practice. Part of it is that the Hellfire design feels largely uninspired and lacks the cohesiveness, balance and ingenuity that went into original Diablo. In fact there are only two really good features in Hellfire. The first is the "Jog" toggle that allows your character to run in Tristram. Too bad it doesn't function in the dungeons. The second is the "Search" spell that helps you locate items on the ground. Unfortunately it's a spell, so you have to spend mana on it. Blizzard rolled up both these features in Diablo II in much improved form. As it stands they end up not benefiting Diablo very much.

The rest of the additions are just mediocre or worse. The new character class is fun, but kinda unbalanced, and doesn't really add a lot of depth. Lots of stuff feels tacked on and has an inconsistent art style that doesn't match Diablo's polish. There aren't really a lot of new quests. One (of the two) new area is downright annoying. Some of the best features can only be enabled by editing a special file outside the game.

The worst part of Hellfire is that playing it means making a tradeoff. It is not a seamless expansion to Diablo - it's almost like a separate game. Your Diablo characters aren't portable between Hellfire and the original game, so you have to roll new ones. And while Diablo went on to gain five more patches after Hellfire's release - Sierra only patched their game once... so Hellfire players have to contend with bugs long-fixed in Diablo. In addition to those bugs, Hellfire brings a set of its own, which never got resolved. Hellfire players can't (without hacking the game) play multiplayer. This expansion is not playable on Battle.net. The music in new areas is lacking, and because it isn't read from the CD, the game glitches whenever an item is picked up. The drop system is bugged out the wazoo, to where finding some of the new unique items is actually impossible.

I would really recommend this one only to die-hard Diablo fans. Those without it are not missing out on anything. Sierra tried to pull it off but they just couldn't match that Blizzard standard set by the original game, and the new features aren't worth fighting the bugs and irritants brought on by this expansion.This controller is an okay replacement for the original SNES controllers, but not as good. The reason why this controller is not as good as the original SNES controllers is because the buttons are not as sensitive to button presses unlike the original which have very sensitive buttons; the buttons after using them for several months or a little bit more start to sink down more inside the controller because the springs are not as strong as the ones in the original controllers are. In addition, they are made cheaper than the original controllers and are not as durable, so they will not last as long. My recommendation is to not buy these controllers and get refurbished original Super Nintendo controllers on (...) or the exact replica version because they use the same exact materials to make those controllers as Nintendo does for their controllers. The only difference is the exact replica's do not have the Nintendo logo on it. I got two refurbished original Super Nintendo controllers from that website and they work excellently and they will last for many years. And another thing about the New Port controllers, the first time you use them, the D-Pad buttons are rather stiff and eventually lossen up after using them for a while and become easier to use. A last warning about the controller, the down function on the D-Pad does not work very good, unlike on the original Super Nintendo cotrollers, the down function on the D-Pad works excellently.Start and Select buttons got embedded into the controller, so I ended up taking it apart in order to get them out and alter the holes so that the buttons wouldn't get stuck. The wires were poorly soldered on, so they ended up coming off of the board almost instantly.It functions, so its got that going for itself. It feels very cheap though. Very cheap and hollow. And very light. Noting like a real SNES controller. But I suppose, if you don't care about any of that stuff, it did work. I wouldn't recommend it, though.I've played this game between 10-20 times and when it kept going it was really fun. "Chaos" was usually the one I played but "Life" was pretty cool too. The battles were pretty good but the AI wasn't all that great. The different characters and units were pretty cool though.

The graphics are so so. They're not terrible but they're not exactly beautiful either.

Unfortunately it crashes after a few minutes or hours so I haven't got to the end of the game ever. I've tried it on two different computers, one being way more poweful than the other one and it just won't play completely on either one. If it'd quit that, it'd be great.Sid Meier is a true artist in the realm of software, but with each new addition to the Civilization family the games become more oriented toward conflict and less fun to play. In AC the Believers will appear on your  borders within the first 50 turns and you will never really be at peace  again. Forget about the fun of managing a nation: this is a non-stop  Darwinian struggle to keep your head above water. (Some players might like  this, but I find it tedious.) There's no point in trying to negotiate with  other factions because they'll just turn right around and violate your  territory or declare war. Then after you have spent decades trying to build  up your industry, when your output reaches a certain level the planet  itself will being to attack you with an inexhaustible supply of mindworms.  *Every* game of AC is a race to achieve the victory conditions before the  planet itself defeats you, and there's not much sense of satisfaction in  that. Add to this the fact that the game runs unbearably slowly. You will  spend more time watching units go plod-plod-plod across the screen than you  will playing. I really wanted to like this game, but after a while its  defeatist atmosphere and tedious play just got too wearisome. Let's hope  that in his next game Side remembers that growing an empire is more fun and  challenging than beating one.Why didn't I just read the packaging and put it down. No, I had to go and buy it. I played Civ II once, Alpha Centauri two or three times, and now Call to Power... well, I didn't make it through the tutorial.
One word...  ZZZZZZZZZZZ!Well, I must say that I was really disappointed by this game! I got my hands on it as soon as it became avayable. Having played for interminable hours with the original Civilization game I had great expectations from  this title. In the end it really turned out to be one of the worst sequels  ever!
The MAYOR SHORTFALLS ARE: 1- Game speed. By the time you reach the  space age you will not have been able to explore much of the world, and  will not have been able to build an army from a particular historical age.  Since the speed is so fast, by the time you have an army of, let's say  musketeers, you have already discovered planes and the nuclear bomb. THIS  IS VERY FRUSTRATING!  2- Units: Fewer than its predecessors and less  realistic. 3- The space age: It is only confusing and doesn't really help  to make the game interesting. 4- Unconventional units: You have now lawyers  and eco-warriors that work something like the spies in the original game.  In the end they end up beying only annoying and totally confusing! It would  have been better to add a more sound political and economic sistem to the  game and add a few varibles afterwards (i.e.: political movements and  private enterprise). 5- Customization: It is now impossible to customize  the game, like create new units as it was possible in CIV 2. I hate that!  6- Maps: Lacks a map of earth!  It used to be the only map I played on in  CIV 2!
IMPROVEMENTS 1- Graphics: Way better than the predecessors. Too  bad that the other features in the game didn't get quite to the same level!  2- Soundtrack: Improved somehow. 3- Combat: A tactical display now allows  you to actually play battles. Nice idea to start with, but it is somehow  badly put to work and has some incredible bugs (like archers that shoot  down stealth bombers! ).
My suggestion?  Wayt for a sequel or buy CIV 2!This game calls its civilizations "races" and has slavery as a prominet part of the game, but there is the abolition eventually. It does not feel like a successor to Civilization II. The wonders of the world are  all new, as is the technology tree. The interface is new, and you cannot  use a keyboard to move units. I did not care much for its supposedly  improved graphics over Civilization II, I did not see that much  improvement, and by now the graphics are not cutting edge anyway.
There  are too many new units and cumbersome rules associated with them. The  cursed televangelist keeps popping up out of nowhere, converting cities and  eating into your empire's resources. The lawyer hides just as you are about  to move a military unit to kill him. Building cities in space and under  water may sound like a lot of fun and a novelty compared to the two  original Civilizations. But playing at lower levels, this won't be  interesting, becuase you will learn how to crush your opponents before  acquiring the technology for underwater and space construction; at higher  levels, the game becomes too difficult and too cluttered with units and  characters to persevere with marine and space existence. The only real  improvement over Civilization II is that governments are more stable during  war. In Civ II, if you wanted to wage a serious war, you had to install  monarchy or fundamentalism, or your government would collapse. Bottom line:  maybe it's because I am older, but I did not enjoy this game as much as  Civilization II. What comes out of "Call to Power" screams for  help to bring more original and well-crafted games to the market.I would rent this game. It takes no skills what so ever to beat it. Maybe it just came naturally to me, or maybe I'm just to critical but this game is not worth buying. In my opinion this game would only appeal the the 8-11 age range and even then would they only play it once or twice.Ok so i get the idea that you are a glove rolling on a ball. Hmmmm. Ok well here goes. If you liked this game, you are an IDIOT! HELLO GUYS YOU ARE A GLOVE! WHAT THE HECK IVE NEVER HEARD OF SUCH AN IDIOTIC CHARACTER! A GLOVE! FOR GOODNESS SAKES, IVE HEARD THAT ORIGINALITY IS GOOD, BUT THIS? ok i will stop yelling. But jeeze guys cant you see that only some kind of fool would actually enjoy playing as a glove that can balance on a ball? Well I can. So I'm out, enough said.I have played few games that were as funny as this one. Why? Take a bunch of game developers who hated the average controls of survival horror games, get a bunch of inept writers to scribble down a derivative plot with a nice hook and horrible dialogue, music composers who aspire to be better than John Williams, game designers who played WAY too many Super Mario games and anyone in marketing or professional game reviewing to pass the game off as a Survival Horror game and you've got a painfully hilarious game on your hands. This game doesn't do Sega any justice and don't believe the lie that this was their first Survival Horror game, they made their first two years before this on the Saturn and that game, Deep Fear, was art compared to this. I felt absolutely lied to when I played this game thinking I was in for the scare of my life when I found myself rolling on the ground after witnessing some of the silliest character models, inconsistent soundtrack, awkward dialogue, non-existent atmosphere, incomprehensible plot and obnoxious controls I've ever played on a DreamCast game. Your characters run so slow you'd think they had weights tied to their ankles, but their steps look so played out it's almost like they're waddling away from danger! You'll kill monsters who, despite being four legged monstrosities, will literally sprinkle you with gold coins! The overly dramatic music will play on and loop over and over again when nothing is happening! You want a farce? You've got nothing but farce in Blue Stinger.I have most of the major flight sims and now I have this and have only worked with it a bit but I find it a little too overcomplicated, it's taxing even for someone who is a flight simmer and is already flight tested and combat tested.
The graphics are good but first there was the necessity to download a patch which at 25mb is the largest game patch I've ever seen, the list of fixes is enough to make you question why they released it in that form anyway.
Although the amount of interactivity is less with the bombers in Janes Attack Squadron so is the level of overhead.
If you are really a B17 nut though and you want total realistic immersion in that plane then you'll like the sim.Loser! The cars in this game don't leave behind any dust, they bite the dust! It's no wonder that Activision didn't dare tie this game directly into Interstate '76. There is just no comparison to the classic game. I would love to compare this game but since Activision isn't doing that I won't either. Let's go down the list of Graphics, Control, Game Play, Sound/Music, and Fun Factor. That will give or take one star for each category.
Graphics: Where does one start on the graphics? As far as the level of detail and the amount of destruction available, it is indeed a very good game. Games of this nature tend to over simplified with little or no detail in the buildings and surrounding terrain. Activision programmers spent a lot of time on the details in the game, I wish they spent the same amount of time on the game's engine. The game engine plays like a first generation game. There is such an incredible amount of popping, crazing, stretching, and disappearing polygons, any good programmer should have never allowed this kind of thing to even leave his development PC. For those out of the loop I'll define the problems.
Popping- Terrain popping up out of no where. Programmers usually solve this with careful use of fog. Yes folks, that is the true use of fog. However fog in this game is under utilized. Almost like it was thrown in at the last minute.
Crazing/Stretching- This tends to be very similar. Various walls or architecture seems to twist or stretch into bizarre angles. If you have the game drive the car directly up against a vertical wall and you'll see it. The level with the lighthouse is a prime example.
Disappearing polygons- This is a serious no no in games. Drive to the edge of any arena until the car "bounces" if you can get the proper slope of land (about a 45 degree angle.) and the camera swings low enough, parts of the ground will disappear and be replaced by a livid blue (or red depending on the generation of PSX console or some other factor).
Control: Unfortunately, this game can't decide on Arcadian controls or Real World controls, so it attempts to do a half and half deal. The car's accelerates and steers like it's running through molasses, unless of course it floats, then it feels like it's skimming around on ice. In fact, control's so bad that I tend to get and use the hovercraft mode or the boat mode more often than not. The only major saving grace is that the controls are 100% configurable. I myself don't like the default uses for the buttons. Especially for my style of play which involves using my thumb to press two or three buttons at the same time. (Old School Mario Style if you will.)
Gameplay: Game play is frustrating at best. (Why is the "Arcade" mode listed before "Quest" mode?) The various modes of the game should be fun, but really, are more of a frustrating exercise in patience. Past experience tells me that arcade mode is a great way to "practice" the details of the game. In this case, it actually is set up that way. Hints and tips are handed to you before each battle. Cars can be limited in number and difficulty. And goals are clearly defined. However, actually doing all of this takes a bit of work. The number of "configuration" screens one must churn through is heart breaking. Whatever happened to a "simple" game session? And the enemies seem to be overly ruthless. Whereas quest mode seems to be the easiest of the modes, having blasted through 4 of the drivers in the first few hours of playing. I really didn't have much patience to even try the survival mode.
Sound/Music: I try not to review music or sound in games but in this case it will be the only whole star for this game. The music is indeed sweet to listen to. The tunes are strangely familiar, but I can't place my finger on it. It also appears that there is one song for each of the characters to play. The book lists 15 characters and I believe there are 15 songs. It's quite fun to try and match the songs to the characters. The music would have been a blast if they used real world 70's music but alas, the licensing would be too much. The only annoying sound effect is those stinkin' UFO's. Kind of makes me want to turn the CD into a UFO.
Fun Factor: Fun Factor can't get much lower. The only fun things here is the quest mode and two player mode. It's always nice to play ANY game with two players, especially one that lets us rag on it like it's Elevator Action (Waaay back in the NES days.) The quest mode is nice for those late night no-brainer sessions where your brain is too fried to think about anything else.
Sorry if this review is just as jumbled as the game itself. Watching the game world twist and spin in sickening ways scrambled my poor brain. The results?
Half a star for graphics but bad engine. No stars for the controls. No stars for game play. One star for music and sound. And half a star for the fun factor. That's all. Hope Activision's third attempt isn't a . . . dump.To say that the PS1 version of Capcom's X-Men VS Street Fighter is butchered is saying it lightly.  What made the game so great in arcades was the tag-team feature in which you picked two fighters and could switch at any time during the fight.  This feature made for great fighting fun, but because of the PS1's RAM inabilities, that feature had to be omitted.  It's obvious Capcom released this game to make a quick buck on the X-Men and Street Fighter licenses, and while on it's own it can be a solid fighter without the tag-team feature, the graphics are painfully watered down, the game is loaded with sloppy frame rates, and there is loads of slowdown.  If you can get past all that, this may be worth checking out if your a Street Fighter fan, but the Marvel VS Capcom games that would be released later on next-gen systems are more worth your time.This expansion pack (EP) was a complete wast of my time, and money.  It adds a couple new magical weapons and armor, some new spells and a couple new areas to explore.  There is no plot to the the EP, just some NPC saying  "Oh I lost my son in Durlags Tower. . . ." and stuff like that.  The only thing that made this EP worth two stars is that they cleaned up a  lot of the rough edges from Baldurs Gate, and increased Experience points  to a point where your fighter and like one other class can go up a level.  By the way, it is just one more disk that you have to flip through if you  decide to replay Baldurs Gate.  In conclusion don't buy this EP, it isn't  worth it, unless any new EP's come out that require it.I actually played the Saturn version with the 4MB RAM cart, and I have to say that the PS1 version SUCKS! Why? Because tag-team was taken out because the PS1 could not handle it. It did not have enough RAM (Random Access Memory) to switch fighters since it takes about at least 40 MB of RAM, and the PS1 only has 32 MB.  If Capcom did put in tag-team, then it would take forever to load up a character once you tag-team with it, you can tag-team with the same character, but it does not feel the same.
 I suggest get a Saturn, (it is only $10 bucks or less) get a 4MB RAM cart which you can find at EB.com, or any Video game store, and get the Import version of X-men vs. Street Fighter, trust me you won't be disappointed.This sequel to Vigilante 8 has taken a backseat to the first and gone way downhill, crashing into burning flames and leaving nothing but a huge wreck. And instead of rating it high and then commenting on how much I want to play this game, or complain about it not being delivered, I'm actually reviewing the game from having actually played it!!!

The graphics may be slightly better then the 1st version, but the game-play has come down badly. Tho it is fun for a few seconds to have your vehicle slide down ski-slops, or get picked up by crane magnets and ski-lifts, or have your car blown off the road by jet engines, the vehicles response is horrible compared to the first. You have less control this time, the car won't do the 360's properly, and in lighter cars, you spend more time upside down trying to flip back over, because of opponents rockets, then anything else.

The levels seem much smaller too. Someone said there is 50 levels, what are you on about? There is not 50 levels.... it would have been nice to be able to unlock some of the levels of the last one, but instead you have to play the new ones, which have more potholes, things to crash and fall into then anything fun to do.

Even if no one wanted to add some of the original stages, they should have at least added some of the original vehicles. Nothing has come back, every car is new. Some are interesting, like the moon-buggy's, motorbikes, bug-bug, and a range of other vehicles, but there's no way to enjoy testing them because you cant control any of them. The speed of the cars is boringly slow! There is a code to make them faster, but that only results in worse control of the vehicles. The worst control is when trying to control your vehicles upgrade... You find things on the track that transform your vehicle into some other modified craft. Most of them change into a "Back To The Future II" style Sky-way-Flier. It looks cool at first, but you have no control over it. Also the spaceship from the original is no where to be seen.

There is some new weaponry, like a flame thrower, but opponents seem to now drive shielded vehicles and it now takes 100 times longer to destroy someone. Also, the rockets and pink projectile things are about all that's found in most levels, there is a few new things like specials being easy to find but what happened to the mini-gun? It seems to have almost completely disappeared and it's annoying looking for weapons inside buildings when you cant control a vehicle to get in there quick enough.

Even with codes, this game was still no fun. You need the invincibility code, but some of the codes like Monster Truck Wheels sounds like fun, but it's nothing to brag about, you just keep slipping around with no control as usual.

Overall, stick with Vigilante 8. Don't bother with this sequel. It's a downgrade from the 1st. On one player anyway, I haven't tried the multiplayer, but take my advice if you intend to play one player. It's not worth it. It's all graphics and no fun.When a system is incapable of doing justice to a game, one would think a company would be smart enough to not release the game on that system. But for reasons that are probably based entirely around making money, Capcom has released a completely butchered version of its arcade fighter, X-Men vs. Street Fighter, on the PlayStation. The only thing added to the game is super cancels, which allow you to string multiple super combos together. Super cancels were lifted out of Street Fighter EX without much forethought, so some characters' cancels work better than others. In fact, the entire game seems to have been designed without much forethought. Even if this were a perfect translation of the arcade game, the simple fact remains that X-Men vs. Street Fighter is a terrible, unbalanced, pound-on-buttons-at-random-and-win-anyway fighting game. One of the few things the arcade version (and the Saturn version, which was an arcade-perfect translation) had going for it was the graphics. They weren't spectacular, but the characters were large, colorful, and used a lot of frames of animation. The PlayStation, a fairly weak machine when it comes to 2D, simply can't handle that much data. So Capcom chopped out tons of frames (Juggernaut does a whole lot of standing still, and his attacks are about two frames). The graphics look very washed out, and there is a completely unacceptable amount of slowdown. Ken's Shinryuken super combo had most of the frames chopped out, and it still slows the game down to a crawl. The slowdown and missing frames are so bad and so noticeable that they have a detrimental effect on the already bad gameplay. The arcade version's big selling point was that you picked two characters and could tag-team between the two at any time during the fight. Your teammate would also come out and help in a two-level team attack, as well as in Alpha counter-style attacks. Since duplicating this on the PlayStation would require keeping four entire sets of animations in memory, the tag feature has been completely removed. You still pick a second character (cruelly taunting players expecting the full functionality of the arcade version), but he only makes his presence felt during the team attacks and counters. To make up for the shortened play time, the one-round battles of the arcade have been extended to the standard two-out-of-three format. Characters also slowly regain life, much like your backup character would in the arcade. This game just shouldn't exist. At some point in the development cycle, someone should have stepped in, seen that the PlayStation simply couldn't do justice to the original game, and pulled the plug. It took an additional 4MB of RAM to get the Saturn, which already has more RAM than the PlayStation, to run a perfect version of the game. I like the Street Fighter series as much as the next guy, but this is taking it way too far.found the game a bit too complicated, not what I expected after having played 1602, 1503, and 1701I bought this game for my 7 year old son, expecting it to be a good one.  The graphics are average (better graphics can be found with Spyro, year of the dragon), and the levels are very frustrating, I found myself throwing the controller away several times trying to help my son get through the levels, even though I consider myself a good gamer.  I finally recommended my son to play Spyro the dragon instead to avoid anymore frustrations.  I won't recommend anyone to get this game.I'm going to fly in the face of convention wisdom and assert that Tomb Raider is not a good game. I like the concept, the puzzle solving and exploration. I like that it's a great diversion from the standard shoot-em up. The problem is with the tedious game play. The game is tough, just from the mental standpoint and it takes some effort to figure out what you're supposed to be doing in each level. But that's part of the fun, figuring things out. Unfortunately, it's moving through the levels and getting from point A to point B that is problematic. There are way too many places where you have to make a pinpoint precision jump or other move with absolutely NO margin for error. In some cases this means you fall somewhere and have to climb back to your starting point, or in some cases you die, meaning you have to start the whole level over again. And after trying one of these jumps over and over and over, you finally get frustrated and give up. There were instances where I tried a jump over and over, and then suddenly made the jump and had no idea what I had done differently from the previous numerous attempts. For any game to be that touchy is just a disgrace. It's too bad, I think I could have liked this game but the tedious pinpoint controller movements ulitmately ruined the game for me. I know it's one of PSX "greatest hits" and very popular, but if don't like tedious games, you'll want to avoid this one.Maybe it is because I have a Mac version but I was really really enjoying this game when my band of characters stopped going up in experience levels.  I contacted the company but was told that that is just the way the game is.  Yes, I do like a challenge but I play computer games to relax too and without an advancement in level I don't see how to win this game.  I was very very disappointed.I enjoy RPG games. Really, I do. But for some reason, I couldn't get into this one as much as I thought I could. But I've looked at all the reviews  on this board, and most are raving about it. But what I'm also wondering is  if these very positive reviews are from mostly die-hard RPGers, and/or  Dungeon & Dragons fans.
I personally do not play D&D, so I'm not  a die-hard. But I did enjoy Diablo, Everquest, Might and Magic 7, and Age  of Wonders, so I'm not against "dungeon-crawl"/fantasy type games  as you may think I am. I did like the "pause" option in Baldur's  Gate, so you can give commands to each of your party's members without  getting thrashed in the meantime, but I didn't care for the graphics. But  to some, that's minor and forgivable if you like the gameplay--I guess I  just didn't. I also prefer faster paced games with a more linear storyline.  But if you prefer a non-linear storyline, and sometimes feeling semi-lost  in a rather large world to explore, that's all the more reason for you to  get this game.
I also get a tired of too much repitition. Every battle I  set my formation up, pause, issue relatively the same commands, and  execute. (In Everquest, I only went up to Level 12 and quit, thinking,  what's the point?) So the combat is repetitive, but in Baldur's defense, it  does have a storyline and an ending, unlike Everquest. But it is time  consuming. But if you can afford the time, and you like RPG's, then you'll  love this title, otherwise, spend your gaming money elsewhere.i don't know why others rate this so highly - the graphics are OK, i love the fact that you can play with friends (although in the end are different schedules ruined this) and i like importing my own pictures. But the  controls for this game are absolutely frustrating!
Some minor gripes:  the manual doesn't have enough info, combat used to be a MAJOR pain until i  stumbled over the pause commands (and had to play with them to figure out  which ones to set), having the main character enter a store makes life  frustrating for other LAN players, the plot doesn't seem multiplayer  friendly (you lose all those NPCs which are important to the story - the  party is so small), the maps don't make a ton of sense, group movement can  be really annoying and my number one complaint: you can't use arrow keys to  move your character!  i know, it sounds minor, but the view screen is only  large enough to show a few tiles, so you have to scroll the screen, click a  destination point, by which time your guy has already walked there so you  scroll some more, repeat - it gets so that you never actually see your  character because you're so busy setting way points for him to walk. At a  minimum, if you have to play this carpal-tunnel torture of moving your  characters leg by leg, you should at least be able to make the screen  center on the character - the little guy just walks off the screen and you  don't know where he went. At a minimum, let me see more of the map at one  time - i have a 19" monitor and prefer looking at what's happening  rather than the large pretty pictures some artist drew.
The plot's OK,  the D&D system is pretty sophisticated, there's some real polish in  places and we've needed a good RPG for a while (i LOVED Fallout, which had  lousy, but still vastly superior, map and movement controls), so i got the  game the very first day it was released (xmas eve), and my roommates and i  played it for 2 weeks, but eventually i got so sick of the control scheme  that i just erased the frustrating thingIs it possible for a game to be TOO realistic?  The graphics are excellent, and there's a lot of bass to everything.  Now, shall I go into the negative parts?  I'm against the claim that video games cause violence  in the populace, but this game nearly changed my opinion.  In Kingpin, it's  "f-this" and "f-that," and "Don't look at my  (expletive)."  Even casual talk has the F-word butting into the  conversation, and I was very disgusted with the conversations that my  character engaged in.  I returned the game soon after I installed it  because I thought the "gritty" subject matters detracted from the  "fun factor" of the game.  How can one have fun cussing and  killing other people that cuss back?  Sure, Quake and other games are  violent,  but not as wanton, gratuitous, and obscene as THIS game.  I admit  that I like some violence, but not even *I* would defend Kingpin from  accusations of youth violence.  Aside from that, bullets leave exit marks  on the opponents, but so does the crowbar, the levels are very confusing,  making you run in circles, and objectives are very vague.  Heed the rather  large warning labels on the box PLEASE.  This game is DEFINETELY NOT for  kids...and even some grown-ups!Ok, by reading the reviews of the people here, I can see someone has figured this game out.  I bought it not realizing it had missions where you had to do certian thing at certain times.  I thought this was going to more of a graphics rich version of Dune 2000 or Tiberian Sun...was I dissapointed.
It takes forever just to get to play a mission.  The mission starts loading up and someone starts talking, I guess giving a little story to the mission you are about to play.  But, I can see that it's all loaded up within a few seconds, but the person just keeps talking.  I can't get it to skip past that so I can go ahead a play.  This is very frustrating.  In a nutshell, I stopped trying to figure it out and went on to buy another game to play.  Get something else, this sucks.$43...As I write my review the game is selling for $43.  I sold my copy 4 months ago on here for 9.99 and it wasn't the lowest price.  What the heck is going on here.  Clearly the folks paying the silly price have not seen the gameplay or read a correct unbiased review.  I purchased my copy on clearance (I was the original owner) for 1.99 back in the day and even then I thought I overpaid.  The storyline is vague, the characters are too similar and from what I could stand...the same scene appears to take place with different baddies over and over again.  And this game is $43??

The definition of insanity

...This game could do alot better than it really did. It takes way to long to build something or to train something. But it has a good storyline where its humans against orcs. I do enjoy watching them battle it out and ending in a gory death. The land isn't detailed enough. What this game lacks is details.I love Sarge's Heroes, but Sarge's Heroes 2 is not my favorite. I ordered the first one in it's "original" box. What I got was Sarge's Heroes 2 in a custom aftermarket Sarge's Heroes 1 box. The first edition of this game is more valuable than the second and I paid for the first. I reported the problem and they asked me to ship it back to them, however the shipping and handling outweighs the weight of the game as a whole, so I suppose I just got the crappy end of the stick...This popular title has a lot going for it - good graphics, excellent maneuvering and physics, and style to boot.
However, the difficulty is much too high for even heardcore gamers. There seems to be something truly amiss with the makers of the game - despite the negative comments regarding gameplay, the game's sequel, Driver 2 (PSX) is actually harder than the original.
In order to make the game playable, you either have to apply a patch released by Infrogrames or play in cheat mode. Then it will become only _barely_ playable.
Unless you can find a cheap copy, avoid.this game is a monster sized pain in the butt.you cruise around far slower than everyone else.the weopons are never there when you need them.you get totaly screwed when you get hit by one however and of course the computer gets like barely fazed at all.then theres the whole booger,herpes,poop aspect.once again,nothing funny about that guys.can we grow up already?I saw this game, rented it from the store, and brought it home. It took me an hour to beat the game 100%, and the graphics were awful. They were pointed all over, and looked worse than Lara Croft from Tomb Raider I. I would not reccomend buying this game enless you're a first time gamer or under 8 years old. Rent, don't buy if you're older.I love the story and this is what started the series, but I hate the game itself in terms of gameplay. The controls are a bit unresponsive, the combat is a joke and the prima strategy guide is an outright marketing scam. I just had to tell the truth of what I think about this. The gameplay is so bad for me that it just ruins the entire thing for me. I'd rather just watch someone play it with no commentary.You know you're in trouble when other terrible video games are compared to you. Though only a little worse than Charlie's Angels (GameCube) and not as bad as Hidden Invasion (PlayStation2), Fighting Force is the difinitive bad adventure-fighting game that fits on the same crap list as Burning Fight. Even Brawl Bros and Peace Keepers are better than this, and that's saying a lot.
You get your pick from four forgettable crime fighters: pixie-pig-tailed Alana, gruff Hawk, leather-pants-wearing "Look at me, I'm Nabiki Tendo" Mace, and prison inmate Smasher. They're out to get a psychopath who believes the world should have ended at the beginning of 2000 A.D. and is now determined to make that happen. Maybe he should have waited through the other 23 times it turned New Years day across the world.
Many Sega Saturn owners didn't realize then how lucky they were that this game was cancelled on their system. Nintendo 64 owners were not so lucky, and I wasn't so lucky after getting the PlayStation version.
The controls are sloppy, the hit detection is horrible, especially the dash attacks, and the character animation is almost jerky enough to look like an old claymation cartoon.
If there is one redeeming factor, it is the music. Though not great, the musical scores in this game are a nice touch. The only reason you should buy this disc is to pop it into a CD-playing radio or computer and skip track one since that's just a data track ... meaning all you will hear, if anything, is an annoying buzz. Start on Track 2, sit back, and enjoy the only good thing about this game.This game is fun to play, but the graphics are terrible.  The terrain is green, with some very sparsely placed trees and signs.  It is fun to beat down other racers with pipe, chain, hammer, etc... but the bikes are nearly impossible to control at full speed.  The expansion pack for the N64 is the biggest waste of money i've ever spent.  It does NOTHING to help the graphics or sound quality.  multi-player saves it from the graveyard.It's sad. I always liked the Might and Magic (MM) series. It was fairly simple but the built-in journaling and mapping tools made it less of a pain than other RPGs. Unfortunately MM seems to be frozen in time and this version doesn't appear to have any changes from previous one. There is a new storyline, or more precisely, a new variation of a Might and Magic storyline but graphics, sound, monsters, spells, skills and interface at all the same. I couldn't get the game run with DirectX under Windows 2000, software mode only, although the game is listed as NT-compatible. Keyboard shortcuts would stop working and occasional clipping problems got me stuck and forced a reload to get out. The sound is what really drove me crazy. The character voices can be cut off but not the NPCs. I'll have 'Have a pleasant evening!" ringing in my head for years.
For die-hard Might and Magic fanboys only.It's technically competent, and indeed 'competent' is a good word. It's  just very, very uninspiring, and after a seemingly endless and tortuous  wait (the release was held back for three years, during which time many of  the creators left the company), it's a disappointment. Not a huge one, as  people were beginning to suspect that it might not be very good. Whilst  'Half-Life' had the advantage of suddenly appearing from nowhere,  Daikatana's gestation was extremely public, despite the 'it'll be ready  when it's ready' attitude. What's it like, though? Dull. That's what.  Whilst by no means as lacklustre as 'Blood 2', it's infected with an air of  carelessness. The graphics and sound are functional, the gameplay is no  more advanced or entertaining than 'Quake 2', the character AI and voice  acting are both simplistic and irritating (your sidekicks are infuriatingly  stupid, and their death instantly loses you the game) and, crucially, both  'Half-Life' and 'Soldier of Fortune' are much, much better, and cheaper.OK, this game was meant to be out 2 and a half years ago but what ever way you look at it, even if it had came out when it did it would still have struggled to be competitive back then.
What the creators have tried to  do is take a new approach by putting 4 games together in one through the  different ages played by the lead character. All of them are as bad as one  another. It plays like doom did and the AI is possibly the worst ever, in  an age when AI is as good as Theif and SS2. I think Pong had more  intelligent coding then Daikatana. Unlike games where you injure someone  and he runs to find his mate. Shoot a baddy in Daikatana and his mate will  stand lifelifeless next to him watching the world go by.
I was hugehly  dissopointed as I thought this would be a rival to Half Life and would  easily be the best first person shooter of the year (to which Soldier Of  Fortune holds the crown so far for me). This game rivals Doom but I think  you'll find Doom is 10 times better!  Still, it gets a star for the 4 ages  idea and em... a star for the logo and nice box!
I cant wait til Duke  Nukem Forever, if its as bad as this I'll cry!Updated review- March 20, 2007

I was completely wrong about Metal Gear Solid.  I've really grown to change my mind about the negative thoughts I once had and NOW I think Metal Gear Solid deserves 5 stars (4.5 to be exact).  I especially grew to appreciate the main purpose of the game which is, as many have already mentioned, being encouraged to AVOID the guards that appear on your radar.  The idea of the game is to find ways to avoid enemies- not just go in and attempt to either shoot or break their necks.  No wonder I originally gave the game a low rating.  I went in expecting to kill everything that walked in my way!  The gameplay is a radically different approach from anything I've ever experienced before.

I originally said Metal Gear Solid was one of those games I respect more than I enjoy. I said this because so much thought and energy went into the storyline and voice acting, that I felt the game deserved to be respected, and Konami deserved credit for making it.

However, playing the game today for the first time in months, I don't know what happened. When I hit the triangle button to put myself in first-person mode, and looked across the hallway to see if a guard happened to be standing there (or walking towards me) I got caught up in the excitement and the quiet atmosphere of trying to find a way around him. It was addicting. I finally figured out how to break their necks and that was a lot of fun, too. The boss fights are actually the very best thing about Metal Gear Solid.  Every single one of them is fun, not to mention they all require you to figure out the best way to defeat them using your rather large selection of guns and figuring out which gun is the correct one. I love fighting that ninja without using weapons and hearing him speak between the action segments.  Hearing enemies talk while you're fighting them makes you want to kick their butts even MORE!

I also love when everything is nice and quiet, and then you accidentally walk right by a guard.  When this happens, a loud sound effect comes in that gives off a feeling of "Oops, my bad!" because now the guard is chasing you around.  You now have to run for your life.  I didn't realize last year that this is actually a lot of fun. This IS a really good game. I'm sorry for saying it was average last year. Sometimes I need to actually PLAY a game before speaking my mind.

Metal Gear Solid is the revolutionary Playstation game that showed the world a new, life-like way to play video games in the late 90's.  The influence this game had on the future of video gaming is simply astounding.  Metal Gear Solid showed how you can take stealth fighting and wrap a gigantic, memorable story around it.  While I'm not a big fan of lengthy twists and turns in video game storylines, I will give Konami a lot of respect for putting an *incredible* amount of time and effort into the game, and in the process, having the Metal Gear Solid series continue to do well on the Playstation 2, and soon, Playstation 3.

I especially like the quiet atmosphere while you try finding ways to walk around guards.  It comes off like you're watching a movie instead of playing a video game, or, to put it another way, you're "playing" a movie.  Not many people can create an atmosphere quite like this.  Good job Konami.

Sometimes the guards aren't as intelligent as you'd like them to be (you can actually walk into an elevator and they will walk right by, without noticing you) and apparently none of them can see you if you're standing only a couple feet away, but you know, these problems are actually pretty nice because it allows gamers to finish Metal Gear Solid without any major difficulty problems.  I can only imagine how hard the game would be if guards were extremely observant all the time.

I still have a problem with the overall darkness of the game, though.  More often than not, an important health or ammo pack is located in a hidden dark area, like near a corner, behind a crate or somewhere you can't see.  It's really not a big deal, though.  Just remind yourself to always check every dark area you come across.  If you're still having trouble finding items, just press the triangle button to put yourself in first-person mode, and hit the left or right buttons on the directional pad to scan around.  This works really well.  In fact, the whole first-person camera angle was a great idea from Konami.

Even though 20 minutes of cutscenes and conversations isn't really my thing, at least you are given the option to skip through them if you want (by pressing any one of the four main buttons, plus the Start button).  I hate when game companies FORCE you to watch them.  I don't think the storyline is bad in any shape or form.  It's actually decent.  You see, my whole life I've had a belief that a video game should be more about actually "playing a game" and less time should be devoted to storyline segments (I'll make an exception for RPGs).  The storyline in Metal Gear Solid is so big and lengthy that if you were to sit there and listen to the whole thing you would be sitting there for HOURS.  Honestly, Metal Gear Solid focuses more on storyline than actual gameplay.

With changing times and technology, people began to prefer the realistic aspects of video gaming.  Metal Gear Solid will go down as one of the originators.

I DO have one complaint- there doesn't seem to be an option for you to lock-on to your target, so YOU are forced to find and face the target.  For example, if a guard is located south/east of you, you have to actually use the directional pad to face south/east and THEN you can shoot him.  You have to face him directly or he'll continue shooting at you until you're dead.  This can be a pain because turning correctly is a bit of a challenge.  This could have been fixed with one simple "lock-on nearest target" feature.

Sure, you have guns that can zoom in on a target, but to use THESE guns you have to get into a special position (which changes the angle of the camera).  By the time you get into that position the guard will have already killed you because it takes a few seconds to get into that position, and believe me, you don't have a SECOND to waste once a guard spots you.  I want a gun that features a QUICK lock-on target (such as a gun with high amounts of firepower and frequently-available ammo packs).  That way it won't feel hopeless when a million guards are after me.

Besides a bit of overall darkness, a lengthy storyline and sometimes unfair situations regarding aiming and shooting, I have no other problems with the game.  These are really minor problems and it's easy for me to look past them.  A game that I SHOULD have given more attention to before attempting to give a final verdict.  Metal Gear Solid is a classic game.  It just took me a while to see that.Come now, who here really thinks they put some time into designing this  game?  The game's story is as horrible as it is clich and is being voice  acted by people that sound too much like a student film class working on a  mid-term project.
Combat consistis of clicking your mouse button in timed  bursts or uning an asinine keybord interface to swing your weapon in three  different strengths.  Whee.
Magic spell creation is novel, but quickly  become tedious and dangerous in the middle of combat when you're trying  like a madman (or madwoman) to heal yourself, but can't get the runes  lined-up in time.
And even the graphics, which are nice, are loaded with  bugs.  In most cases, whenever an enemy would drop an item, the background  would spring 'holes' of black space around it and cause nemerous graphic  flaws until it would finally crash without explination.  Furthermore, some  enemies would become 'stuck' in some void on your screen preventing you  from being able to attack it!
Overall, a terrible clone attempt at Diablo  that should make Eidos ashamed...and let's not even bring up Dikatana,  okay?Long have I had the PC version of Darkstone, and last month I purchased the playstation version, it was HORRIBLE!! it wasn't worth the 10 dollars, instead i returned it to the store and reinstalled the PC version and played it that way. there's no 2-character usage in the playstation version, and the graphics are way worse, my PC is a 96' PC and it plays much better on it. I extremly highly reccomend the PC version, but the playstation version stinks.This game is terrible, I've seen it for PS, and own it for PC, and I can't stand it!  The graphics are terrible, the gameplay is too similar to Diablo 2, without the fun stuff like the Horodric Cube, or the range of items. Save your money, buy DII and Lord of Destruction... you'll feel better that you didn't waste your money.I'm a huge fan of the TR series, and I like the movies  as well. TR1 and TR2 were the best in terms of story, pacing and action. The CG sequences were cooler too.  I hate to say it, but I'm disappointed in this game. TOO SLOW! The levels go on forever, and there's nothing to keep your interest. Ocassionally you will have a ninja jump out at you, or some scorpians, but that's not enough to keep you interested.
The other problems is the levels require too much backtracking and are too complicated. I got stuck numerously and ending up getting a code off the internet to skip levels.  The beginning of the game shows promise with young Lara, and there is a very cool level where Lara has to manuver a jeep in the desert and over cliffs and whatnot.
I don't know what I can recommend instead of this one, but I would say rent it or get it for cheap like $5 or less used or new. She tomb raids for too long with little payoff.I, like most who have played this game, am a huge fan of the Tomb Raider series.  I especially enjoy the puzzle solving of the first game and the action/adventure element and increased pace of the second one.  This series starts off promisingly enough.  Outside of a mandatory (groan) training level, the game eases you into the tried-and-true Tomb Raider gameplay we all have grown to love.  The environments are large and exciting, the puzzles clever.  Exploration is fun and rewarding, and progress is logical.  For the first 6 or 7 hours.  The challenge level really picks up after the VERY neat train level, and in fact starts to become downright maddening.  Do we really have to backtrack for 3 hours just to find 7 scattered items required to make it through to the next level?  Things get flat-out obnoxious at the Chambers Of Tulun and the Trenches.  This area goes something like this: rope swing to hit a switch that unlocks an invincible guy in a room.  Go to the Citadel Gate level to obtain a nitrous oxide canister.  Return to the Chambers and go to the Trenches.  Obtain the nitrous oxide feeder.  Return to the Chambers of Tulun to obtain the roof key.  Go back to the Trenches to get to the Street Bazaar.  Get the car jack and mine detonator so you can get back to the Trenches.  And so on and so on and so on.  Is this mad jumble of item dispersion that is being passed for level design really necessary?  I really enjoy the high challenge level of the Tomb Raider series, but this is ridiculous.  If I didn't have a strategy guide with me, I wouldn't have made it to the Citadel (which is where I am right now).  This game is loads of fun for about 20 or 25 levels; afterwards, it becomes a chore to play.  The graphics and presentation have not been improved drastically since the first Tomb Raider, and the legendary level design has regressed considerably.  Many spots feel cheap, rather than challenging.  Control, while still functional, still isn't perfect, and it causes every jump to be deliberate and nerve-wracking.  If you miss and survive, then you have to make another series of jumps, which can take another 10 minutes just to get back to where you originally were.  I could go on and on, but this game is just too much.  Get this only if you're a die-hard TR fan; but be prepared to fork out some extra cash for a strategy guide.I remember when I played the demo for this game. It was brilliant - you could stealth around, you had to be startegic and the atmosphere 10 times as tense as any other game ever. You had to loot a mansion and you could pick up some jewels for yourself as well. You had to AVOID making a comotion. The use of sound and light (or lack of them) was excellent as well. It was one of the best levels of any game I had ever played.
I got my hands on the full version and rushed through the first level, eagar to see what theivery lay ahead. When I started playing the second level I found myself making my way through a haunted mine where I had to avoid zombies, kill spiders and eventually free someone from a prison. The whole thieving aspect had been taken away, and not only had degenerated into a standard cliched fantasy hack n slash affair, it was a BAD hack n slash affair. The next 2 or 3 levels were the same. Yes, you had to be stealthy, but not in the same context. I never played on - I had no motivation to.
This could have been one of the best games ever, but in attempting to appeal to the mainstream (lets face it, the thievery aspect wouldn't have sold well on consoles) they messed it up, and they didn't even do the "it's-been-done-before" bit well. At least if it was done well it could have offered some short-term enjoyment (albeit forgetable) so that I wouldn't have completely wasted my money, but as it is it was a missed oportunity. Doesn't even deserve the tag "Thief" most of the time.Bought for future investing/collecting. Paper included isn't personally signed by the guy,its just a copy. and this actually dropped in price 40% in the last 9 months since I purchased.As for a star rating I can't really say for sure because THIS GAME WILL NOT WORK ON PS2 OR PS3 and since my PS1 crapped out in my I can't play the game but I hear that the game is very underrated. I hope to be able to play it somehow sometime soon but I figured I should let people know this game only works on PS1I don't want to diss anyone who likes this game, but I can't really see much good in this game.  The graphics are not really anything speical.  It seems almost impossible to see the enemy and you find your self being shot and you can't see the enemy until you've had a major loss of life.  The control is rather overly complicated and isn't exactly user freindly.  The sound is okay, but it seems to make you a little tence.  The game is near impossible even on easy difficultys.  I have owned the game for quite a long time and still haven't beaten the first level by myself.  The missons seem a bit vague and you think "okay... what the heck do I do now?" too often.  When I play this, I can't help but get frustrated and it always feels like the game's fault.....  Even if you are in to army stuff, you might want to rent this first.  If this is your kind of thing, I recomend Medal of Honor: Underground or Syphon Filter.This game is way too hard!  I enjoy a challenge, but this is ridiculous!  I grew frustrated on the easy setting and anything above that is more  infuriating than fun.  What is fun is playing with two players, but even  that doesn't make it any easier.  I would say if you can get this game for  under ten bucks and only want about five or six hours of gameplay out of it  it is worth it.I am totally at a loss for this game.  On one hand it has so many original idea's in terms of both plot and gameplay (And has the closest thing to a sim dating game we'll probably ever see), but the way you actually play it leaves me at a loss for words.  It's not that the battle system makes no sense, or is bad even, it's the leveling up that confuses me.  You don't get stronger when you level up.  Your defense gets weaker when you level up.  You get more health but you seem to loose more health at the same token too.  I'm am at a loss that the creaters of this game could make so many good idea's and make them so poor because they can't figure out commen sense when it comes to leveling up.
If you want an RPG that's original get this...just don't exspect to get anywhere with it.Well I bought this mainly cause I always liked the soundtrack from it and I thought it was cool that U could just slap it right into a cd player and listen to it. Like tomb raider 1, Loaded, etc Well with the greatest hits version, that's not possible. Not only is that not possible but it has a totally different soundtrack on it. I used PSXMC to listen to it. so never really liked the game because of the 2d style gameplay, definitely don't like it now since they change the soundtrack and stuff on it. Greatest Hits disk SUXS!! it did come with all the manuals, case, etc.This game looks like it was made in 5 minutes. It has horrible graphics, and barley any improvments from the first Grand Theft Auto. If you like this type of free-for-all shootem up, pick up the amazing GTA 3, (my all-time favorite) for the PS2.In Rainbow Six, you assemble a highly skilled team of anti terrorist commandos, plan out your assault and then control one or more of the team as you commence your invasion.
The critical item to note here is that the majority of the game is spent choosing your team, equiping them properly and then planning out the raid.  This is not Syphon Filter where you jump into a room of bad guys and blaze away.  You can be killed in a single shot.  Once the action begins, you can play any one of the raid team that is engaging the enemy, otherwise the sophisticated computer AI will guide them according to your plans.
I agree with the reviews that suggest that you rent this game first.  It is very detailed and realistic.  If you don't want to spend hours analyzing and preparing the missions, then you wont't appreciate the game's considerable depth.
I find that the detail level does not lend itself well to the standard dreamcast controller.  There are too many things to do and the interface layout is awkward without a keyboard and mouse.  I also found that the action part of the game (moving the aiming cursor) was overly sensitive and very frustrating to use.
The other reason that this game does not rate highly for me was the poor, boxey graphics and the medicore sound.  They just do not take advantage of the Dreamcast capabilities.  On the otherhand, the game does have a lot of replay value and very sophisticated AI.yeah the cpu is like  completley retarded gulie does not counter with his flip kicks ryu doesnt ever do his shukoken uppercuts to counter but  some of the characters can be pretty hard like T. Hawk but i just don't get the street fighter arcade - like feelingFor those of you who don't know, you play the game as one of three towering monsters, a werewolf, giant lizard or giant ape and the point is to destroy cities across the world. Sure the original arcade game is a classic, with lots of punching and smashing to offer, however this game "world tour" does not have much to offer in terms of fun. Its fun for about the first five or ten minutes, beating, smashing, punching and kicking, then the reality sets in that this is a tedious game. There are over 100 cities and each city is not just a screen, it's a side scrolling level! It wouldn't be so bad if the enemies were not horrendous! Its not just ten enemies on a screen at once, its about thirty to fifty at some points, shooting, bombing, flame throwing, flying and stomping you. The entire game despite being 100 cities can be defeated in a single day but does have a save feature with the memory packs. There is a nice plus though, lots of moves to learn and master, lots of detail, each city looks unique and features landmarks of that city and it is very educational for children to learn geographical locations. Don't pay more than ten bucks for this game though.I don't know how people are rating this game so highly.  I am a huge MK fan, but this game defines why I try to forget that MK3 and UMK3 came into existence.  This is an absolutely horribly programmed one player game.  The computer controlled players anticipate and counter every single move you do even on very easy!  You have to pick Motaro just to make it to the end, and then who had the brilliant idea of giving Shao Kahn a throw-there goes the one way you could beat him with most players.  Avalance software must have spent one day configuring the AI for this stinker.  Then, to make matters worse, the Playstation D-pad controls like a tuna boat in a boat race.  Good luck not breaking your controller as you watch your character get decimated and wonder why the move you tapped in did not work, over and over again.  Then after I finally beat the game with Scorpion, the machine crashed twice so who knows if he has an ending or not.
The only reason I gave it two stars, is that with two people you do get an almost arcade perfect MK experience, but you still deal with the absolutely ridiculous characters of MK3 and UMK3 and all its palette swaps.  My advice is to turn off aggressor mode as well as all of those cheap auto combos and pretend you are playing MKII with some extra backgrounds.This game was quite... what's a nice word for it... bad. I don't completely remember, but I think this game was given to me for a birthday present or something, so I do feel bad for whoever it was who gave it to me... what a waste of good money. Sure, at times it could be addicting, but it's way too repetitive and too long.
I think I'll sell it the first chance I get. I don't care what kind of games you like, don't get this one at all.When I first got this game, I found it to be boring not too soon after getting it. When I play it today, I still think it's boring! WWF War Zone is the first real WWF wrestling game to be released on the Playstation. I don't really consider the In Your House game to be wrestling wise, but more Mortal Kombat like.

War Zone is based off the WWF roster from late 1997 to early 1998, featuring only the most popular stars in the game . Among the wrestlers in this game, you can choose to play as Stone Cold Steve Austin, Shawn Michaels, Bret Hart, The Undertaker, The Rock, Triple H, Mankind, Goldust, Owen Hart, Ahmed Johnson, Farrooq, British Bulldog, Ken Shamrock, and The Headbangers.

The opening of the game is cool, as you're given a Raw like intro that used to open Monday Night Raw back in the mid to late 90s. From there on, you're taken to the menu screen that's in the form of an elevator. In the menu you can look at the wrestlers' biographies that let you listen to their theme and see their attires they wear in the game. There's also a Training mode on the menu that lets you pick a wrestler and learn how to perform their moves before you go into the game.

Once you enter the game, you can either play Exhibition matches to get adjusted to everything or go straight to Challenge Mode. Among the match types available are Singles, Tag Team, Tornado Tag Team, Hardcore, or Steel Cage. The Steel Cage match is probably the most frustrating match to play. When you climb the cage, I didn't know what button to push to climb down. I pushed down but I just ended up climbing back down to the ring. I lost most of the Cage matches.

Challenge Mode involves you choosing a superstar to play as and guide them to the World Championship. Unfortunately this was a boring and irritating mode to play. Once you play one match, you've played them all. You have to fight the same opponents at least 4 or 5 times before you advance to newer ones. As you progress through, you'll be met by a woman in a limo in the parking lot who will either show interest you for winning a match or insult you for losing a match. Oh yeah, that's another thing. If you lose 1 or 2 matches, you're automatically sent back to the beginning and have to start over from match 1 to go up. It ultimately screws you over and you're forced to play a lot of the same boring matches again.

Overall: I found War Zone boring then and I find it boring now. In my opinion In Your House is more fun to play than this. Even the sequel game to War Zone, Attitude, is more fun to play than War Zone. So if you don't want to be bored, skip War Zone and buy In Your House or Attitude insteadI found this game very boring and stupid. It does have the best classic games ever made on it. but i didn't find them that enjoyable, but centapide was fun the best on there. All in all it was okay i wouldn't buy it.Mortal Kombat Trilogy was a popular game back in the early days of the Playstation's existence. Even before the Playstation Mortal Kombat was known as a groundbreaking game for its graphic violence on the Super Nintendo and Sega Genesis. It was the first of its kind, or one of the first. Looking back at the old 2D fighter games, despite the heavy amount of blood and all the creative fatalities, Mortal Kombat STINKS, plain and simple. The game tries to look dangerous and back in the day it really WAS a threat. Parents were terrified that their children might experience all the blood and gore.

We're talking nearly 14 years since the original Mortal Kombats release, and now we can look at the Mortal Kombat series for what it really is: a cheesy-looking and crappy series of uninteresting tournament fighting. That's what the entire series is (until the game turned 3D, then I don't know WHAT to think). Just the way the two fighters attack each other is SO boring. Even the best fighters like Sub-Zero and Noob Saibot are a total bore.

Midway thought they really had something going when they created Mortal Kombat Trilogy. It featured nearly EVERYBODY from the previous Mortal Kombat games. How can it be bad? Well, besides the reasons I mention above, the Playstation version is murdered with INCREDIBLE amounts of loading times. People can say the Playstation was a bad system when it came to loading all they want, but the fact remains Mortal Kombat Trilogy is quite possibly the most annoying game when it comes to waiting to play the freaking thing. Sometimes you have to wait almost a minute before the game *finally* loads the fight screen. And the fighting is so bad (because the entire Mortal Kombat series up until this point is severely dated and horrible) that the loading times are actually the part I look forward to the most.

I'll give the game one extra point for featuring all the fighters in one nifty little package. Besides that. BAD game.I played this game years ago, but I never got to where I am right now! I'm at the part where you should float on top of the pipes to get to Zephon's Lair, and one thing is that there is almost no way to get past that part; if you're lucky, you will make it the first time, if not, you will be trying over 500 times, nothing!

This game can also be frustrating as in difficulty, you can get lost very easily! I just do not recommend this game, unless you love to deal with bugs! Avoid at all costs!Oh wow....I remember playing this colossal flaming pile of turd. A friend of mine rented this game from Blockbuster for a couple of days. And I wished we both could have taken back the time we wasted.

They had great ideas for this game: You take Sub Zero from the Mortal Kombat series, use this opportunity to tell people more about his back story and his battle against monks, set it in cool locales and incorporate MK inspired game play and controls in an action adventure, side scroller with light RPG influences. What could possibly go wrong??? How about....EVERYTHING in this game.

First off, Sub Zero walks and controls like a robot. Second, this game uses every button on the controller (you even have a separate button to hit when you want him to face the direction to walk!) Third, you unlock his special moves as you progress through the game and while many use the same directional pad + button combinations in Mortal Kombat, they are 100 times harder to pull off. The bosses are petty damn hard so expect to die a lot. The graphics and sound do their job in setting the mood for the game, while the music is standard MK and kung fu inspired theatrical sounding. The PS1 version features full motion cut-scenes between the stages you fight in while the N64 gets the standard static artwork.

I give it two stars for the cool music and graphics for its time. But that alone will not make a great game. You may be tempted to pick this up if you love Mortal Kombat and the price is right. DON"T DO IT!! This is an example of how Midway had great ideas for this game but executed these great ideas very poorly.I admit I did put hours into this game being the hugh Mortal Kombat fan that I am. Gosh I'm sure happy this embarrassing MK game didn't ruin Subzero's career. It is a side scroller in which you are faced with many evil monks (oh, and they're all twins for some reason)..Subzero has many power-ups that prove useless. The mega-sized bosses are boring to fight (oh, and they never die for some reason). Due to the fact that the game supplies no level maps (how generic) a strategy guide would be a must, that is if you cared to bother with the game in the first place. Two good things did come about from this MK disaster.. Quan Chi & Shinnok. For Mortal Kombat that is a must see "MK4" or the new "MK Deadly Alliance". Leave this one in the past where it never should have spawned. 2 1/2 stars is as high as I could go. I'm generous.Don't buy this game. I've been playing it recently, and although the graphics and gameplay aren't bad, everything else is, especially the cameras. When you're playing, the automatic camera angles are horrible, and I find myself often readjusting them manualy. It becomes almost impossible to fight more than two other men at the same time without dying, because you need to see them to shoot them, and therefore have to readjust the cameras; two shots later and I'm dead. Quite frustrating. Also, the game only has 4 guns, a pistol with unlimited ammo, and shotgun with little ammo, a automatic but not very powerful rifle with limited ammo, and a rocket launcher, with only four rockets. There is also C4 explosives. This does not make for very fun gameplay. If I were you, I would put your money towards another first person shooter, such as GoldenEye 007 or something newer.I thought the game was dull. It wasn't even scary! The storyline was weak and really didn't have a point to it. The playing screen was also small but the graphics were good. It needs more excitement and adventure. Overall, I was disapointed.I really can't believe that this game has received four stars from Amazon reviewers. I had high expectations of this game because of the many positive reviews and the cheap price. The expectations where totally deflated when I realized how small the actually screen display was while playing the game. I've never had to deal with such an annoying small display ever in my PC gaming experience. Along with the poor dialogue and story, the opening was even worse. Every time you restart the game after quitting, you are taken to the beginning screen, when you should be taken to the load/save option. I admit this is a small detail to dislike, but none the less, it is unacceptable for an adventure game.
Some puzzles were very difficult to solve. I had to replay the 1940's scene many times just to get my idiotic character to say one particular line just so I could move the radio dial to enter a room, which would enable me to finally finish the scenario in one minute.
The somewhat creepy sounds and music, and the fact that it deals with the paranormal are the only reasons why I rate this game with two stars...For starters this is an ok game....nothing more.  The controls and gameplay suck hard compared to Quake and DOOM, the storyline sucks hard compared to Quake or DOOM and the multiplayer sucks hard compared to Quake or DOOM.  So go play Quake or DOOM :)Midway, in an-all out effort to publish as many fighting games as humanly possible has given the world Mortal Kombat Gold, an "update" to  the mildly popular MK4 seen in arcades everywhere a couple of years  ago.
To warrant this title's port to the DC, Midway included some  "new" characters.  Cyrax, Mileena, Kitana, Baraka and Kung Lao  are all standing by to be beheaded at your leisure.  I'll admit, it was fun  to play as my old favorite Baraka, but I found his return to be a bit  lackluster.
None of the fatalities you'll see from the new guys are  original, all are merely 3D updates of MK2 and MK3.  I found Cyrax's  "blowing up the world" move terribly lame, as will you.  And  suprisingly, Baraka's victims don't bleed when he impales them.  Otherwise,  you'll find all of the characters present in the home games from last year,  including the console-only Goro.  Also, savvy players can unlock Noob  Saibot and Sektor, via secret codes (don't tell).
Let's get one thing  straight.  Graphic-wise, this game mirrors the arcade perfectly.  That's  one smooth box of chips Sega's got.  The character models are back to the  3,000-polygon count (up from the PS and N64's dozen or so polygons per  fighter) and the colors are bright and vibrant, with no pixelization.  However, there's a few oddball things that stand out.  For example, for all  of its 22nd-century power, the Dreamcast can't deliver shadows that don't  look like bouncing boxes strung together?  I don't think so, Midway.  Plus,  you'll see several of the same animations again and again and  again.
Gameplay also mirrors the previous home releases.  Jump, combo,  special move, jump, combo fatality.  The AI isn't particularly bright,  especially on the stages where rocks and other debris litter the ground.
Sound-wise, the game is adequate.  The new characters use recycled  sounds from old MK games, as do the new stages (also taken from old  games.)
All in all, if you haven't played MK4, and you have a Dreamcast,  you may enjoy this title.  The action is swift and pretty, and there's lots  of fun blood and mutilations (parents beware.) Otherwise, this title is old  news that could have benefitted from a little more development time.I can see how some folks would enjoy a pure arcade version with no reality whatsoever involved.  Myself, I think I'd like something more realistic.
First downs are 30 yards, there are no penalties, there's no kickoff, and there is no realism involved as far as athletic ability of the players.  For example, if you complete a pass from Young to Rice (remember, this is 2000!), and Rice has the open field, two defenders are actually able to catch up to Rice and tackle him.  This is flat out ridiculous, even for an arcade game.  Ditto Terrell Owens and Tim Brown, and I was able to stop other wideouts with linebackers just by squeezing the turbo button.
The emphasis is obviously on bone-crushing tackles, but after an hour of play, the only really enjoyable aspect of this is the ability to cheap-shot the offensive players long after the ball is whistled dead.  The field-goal kicking system is particularly vexing, as it was apparently designed by a chimp with ADD, and requires eight espresso-mochacchinos in order to maintain the twitch focus required to accurately split the uprights.
Overall, I see this as a fun arcade game for younger kids not up to simulation-level gameplay, and guys/gals who just want to have fun beating each other's players up.  Me, if I want to beat up some guy, I'll play Soul Calibur.I tried to play the game but after getting to the second disc got completely bored with the game.  Un-equipping all the GF's and any magic every time there is a change in parties is bit annoying.  Guess they tried to make something different.  I just like a traditional rpg where everyone has their own individual magic and skills like the previous FF games and some other rpgs.  But anyway, there were glitches in the game and I got stuck in areas and had to play over certain places.  And on the second disc could not get off the ship.  Just gave up and will give the game away.  Going back to play a Tales rpg.this game should marketed as a MULTIPLAYER ONLY!!!
The graphics are gorgeous, however there is nowhere to explore and nothing to find.
I only have a 56k modem - absolutely not fast enough.  One has to have a super fast cable modem to play this "deathmatch" game onlineWhy did you do this id? No wait. . . I understand why, but it's still no excuse to create a game like this. Multiplayer only? OK, OK, I need to settle down here. First of all I need to explain my situation. I have Internet access but not the kind to play this game, I have a lowly 56k modem with a (insert appropriate insult here) connection. This type of connection is definitely not the best connection, even for games that have low data transfer like Diablo or Ultima. However, in my apartment complex we created our own Ethernet LAN with the main hub in my own apartment, perfectly ideal for this type of game. Does this mean that I play this game? Yes, sort of. Does that mean that I like it? I wish I could.
I've rewritten this paragraph four times already. There is no way to express my dislike for this game. Simply put, players will get separated into two groups. Those with the skills to pummel anyone who comes into the arena, and those who get pummeled. Unfortunately, the "Pummelers" are few and far between. Most of the "pummeled" will be amateurs, they'll buy the game, play through a few deaths and erase the game from their hard drive. My LAN mysteriously "empties" out when I offer up a game of Q3. id blew it with this one. Poorly thought out, this game serves only the elite few with the grit, skill, determination, and fast connection to play this game. Lets hope that id gets a brainstorm and comes up with an actual story line for the next game instead of taking the easy way out like they did with this one.
Remember, I'm not saying the multiplayer is bad. The multiplayer is awesome! It's the lack of the single player that makes this game blow. In fact, it's the lack of everything else that makes me want to lose my lunch.Although a lot of people liked this game I hated it. For one thing this game was WAAAAYYYYYY too easy (I beat this game in three days playing only  1 hour a day! The first game had me playing for mounths! )! You're supposed  to find this fairy to give you all your powers back, and yet you start the  game with all your powers! Plus I don't care how good the graphics are,  Rayman does NOT look good in 3D and does not belong in 3D! So get the first  game, I don't recomend this game to ANYONE!i got this game and didn't really play it my brother mostly did and he said is was an awesome game until you get to near the end of the second disc and it freezes at a boss

the only down fall is that you my regret buying the used one

its a good game if it worked properlyThis was always bound to be a great title, the Quake name is like a way of printing money! but this time I am just not buying it! I don't have a very high spec PC and Quake 3 just runs like a dog! (it's a AMD K6-2 350 with  128Mb of RAM and an ATI Rage Magnum with 32Mb) my message to people out  there with this spec of PC or below, don't bother with Q3, there is a very  good alternative "Unreal Tournement" it's a brilliant title that  runs sweet on my machine in 800x600 in 32 BIT colours (colors!). In summery  Q3 Great title, but you will need an ass kicking spec.I'm a huge Final Fantasy guy, but for me, 8 is just very close to trash.  I tried to play it right when it came out but I couldn't stand it right from the get go so I quit early.  I tried to play it again a few years ago and the same exact thing happened.  Finally a little while ago, I forced myself through it. No exaggeration.

So I started the game for the third time thinking, hey maybe it just takes time to catch on.  But no, I never really became addicted to the gameplay as I usually do in FF games.  The only way to get stronger is to find monsters with different spells and steal their spells for your attributes, which is fine and all, but it got extremely annoying having to do that until you reach 100 and for each character! It doesn't sound necessary but trust that's the only way to get stronger because as your level goes up, so do monster levels, so yes there's no point in even leveling up. Really stupid in my opinion, but it's a different type of thing that I think some people actually did like.  Not me. Every other FF was great as they were because they did not deviate the gameplay to this extent.

For every thing else, the story was a definite plunge from 7.  FF7 blew everyone away and when this cam out, the characters were ok, but the story was pretty lame, but not too, too terrible and the music was forgettable.  The environments were about matched with that of 7, but less enjoyable. So overall, this is not a great game.

I feel like this game is extremely overrated, getting so much positive feed back, but for what? My expectations were much higher after being so impressed by 7.  Maybe the bar was just set too high.  Maybe Square needed a break.  Then again, there are obviously people who love this style of gameplay, which gives them a much more different gaming experience.  Don't get me wrong, it's not the worst game ever, but it's just not the same Final Fantasy experience everyone loves.

So bottom line, if you're new to final fantasy and haven't played this yet, I would say consider a different FF game.  But give it a chance if you're not that picky with RPGs.  Just don't expect much.If you fell in love with Final Fantasy VII, like I did, and are so hungry for more that you are considering this game, I beg of you, don't do it. It is nothing like the aforementioned masterpiece. The story was slow to get going, which I was sympathetic to, since it was like that in FF VII too, but after hours it was still lame. For one thing, you have a "military ranking", and it goes down when you explore the towns! I mean come on, the whole point of an RPG is exploring! But that is not the worst part. The magic system has been redone, and it's HORRIBLE. Instead of the product-of-genius Materia system in FF VII, they have the "draw system". You have to collect magic spells, and use them, like petty items! This is, by far, the worst idea ever.

 And then there were the characters. After falling under the spell of Cloud, Aeris, Sephiroth and all the rest, I felt like hiding under my blankets and sobbing after meeting Squall, Rinoa and the other lame characters. Their dialogue is lifeless and cheesy, and I didn't feel attached to them at all.

Although it's a small complaint, I must mention the graphics. The cutscenes are amazing and far better than FF VII's, but everything else is awful. The blocky, toon-like models of FF VII have been tossed out, replaced by characters that try to shove in the detail of real humans in tiny little models. The result? Stiffly animated, bland graphics.

Overall, do not buy this game. Buy Tales of Symphonia, Chrono Cross...anything. Please, do not waste your money. These are the parting words of a weeping gamer. Thank you.as you might have heard, this game was downright terrible. the only thing that kept me going was the story. in my personal opinion, the story is very exceptional and the many months of work they put into it paid off. before starting, i would like to comment that i was very excited to get this game after the two-in-a-row masterpieces final fantasy 6 and 7, and for the fact that it was created by squaresoft, but i was extremely disappointed after about one hour of gameplay. now onto the review...
STORY: 9/10
as you have most likely heard, people say that this storyline is based on the theme of love, when in many people's opinion (my own included), this game is anything BUT love. the only thing close to love that happens is **SPOILER**rinoa and squall kiss at the ending**END SPOILER**
which really isn't all that loveable in my opinion.
similar to final fantasy VII, the setting is in the future (irritating downside, as insanely advanced technology is not that fantasy-like), but this is a mediocre downside of the game
The story goes pretty much like this: an evil sorceress is on the verge of enslavement of the world and a resistance to defeat this woman called Garden trains military soldiers called SeeDs to battle against her and her troops. pretty lame sounding, as seed and garden are really actually one of those ideas that a first grader could come up with in about 5 minutes, but the story actually picks up at about disk three (yes it is pretty slow).
SOUND AND MUSIC 6.5/10
the sound is really quite good in this game. squall's sword slashes when hitting a target, quistis's whip cracks when snapping at a target, and Zell's mighty fists make smacking noises when hitting a target.
such as final fantasy VII, the music in here is not that well conceived and memorable such as the earlier final fantasys. the boss music is sort of catchy (once again such as final fantasy VII), but the rest of the music is rather annoying.
GAMEPLAY 2/10
the single thing that totally MAULS this game is the gameplay. the battling is terribly tedious, and the magic system is completely raped of its glory. instead of learning magic abilities, now you waste time "drawing" magic from enemies. another terrible mistake squaresoft made while making this game.
a new addition to the gameplay is the Guardian Forces (GF) which are pretty much summons just in a stupid term. these guardian forces are pretty much the only thing that will keep you alive in this game, as you need them to enhance health, strength, and so on, which i will get to in a moment. the guardian forces are the main attack force, and with these forces there is barely any need for the "attack" command (other than Zell's Duel limit break). The animations for guardian forces are well animated, but EXTREMELY long and tedious.
Limit breaks are the only other useful thing in this game, but unfortunately, they can only be accessed when you are in life-threatening situation, completely aboliting the well-conceived limit break bar.
MENUS AND PUT-TOGETHERS 1/10
this is terribly time-consuming and irritating. the menu is where i spent most of my time on this game. gladly, squaresoft got rid of the horrid materia system and added on the god-how-could-this-get-any-worse junction system. this system takes about a half of an hour just to understand, and then you spend even more precious hours of your life drawing magic upgrading it so a boss cannot kill you in just one blow. for example, you have to spend about an hour drawing 100 lifes from an enemy just so you can raise your health a couple thousand points.
then after this boring proccess you must draw 100 Tornados in order to raise your attack power (I am almost completely CERTAIN this process is required to defeat the final boss)
The second complete worst part of this game is the following: THERE IS NO LONGER AN EQUIP OPTION! what happened to equipping weapons and armor? there is a way to upgrade your weapon, but that consumes serious time and involves ridiculous side-quests that are extremely boring. don't even bother going through the stress of completing these quests
a ridiculous thing they did in this game is that the characters level up with you, so you can finish the game at level 8 or so (as leveling up is not necessary and bosses give you NO experience points{I completed it at level 7 or 8})
GRAPHICS 9.5/10
The best part of the game, the graphics. The FMV scenes are superior to every other graphics i have EVER seen in my entire life-span (yes including ps2 graphics), and even during gameplay the graphics are superior (during gameplay they are worse than ps2 graphics i might add), and the only flaw in them is the pixelations, as the characters look a bit fuzzy. but that problem is solved in FFIX.
You remember the disgustingly distorted characters in FFVII? well, thank god, they are replaced with actual human-like figures that look like HUMANS at last. no more stubby oversized arms and legs with huge heads that remind me of cartoons.
there is only one thing i love about this game, and it is the ending. as i said before, the story is VERY good and is the only reason that i gave it 2 stars instead of 1. the ending is EXTREMELY good (not as good as FFVI's though) and made me feel good.
REPLAY VALUE: 0/10
as many other people have done, as soon as i finished wasting my time playing this game and finally destroyed the final boss i took out the disk from my playstation, placed it in its case, placed in on a shelf behind my other cds, and it has not been touched ever since. this game was terrible, and i wish i had my 30 hours of gameplay back. i say instead of even thinking of buying this game, look for final fantasy anthology and final fantasy 6 instead.Let's just get one thing out of the way, the battle system in this game is bad. Very bad. There are much too many random battles, a lot of the time you're "drawing" magic from enemies (a HORRIBLE idea on square's part, it makes no sense and is extremely tedious) both to use and EQUIP it to your characters. Since the power of your equipped magic is based in the number you have, and all of your enemies have an unlimited number of the magics they're able to carry, you spend a LOT (a WHOLE lot, HOURS) of time just hitting that draw button and selecting which magic to get from them. Yeah, not fun, at all. Both the equipment and magic systems are bad. The new focus on summoned monsters as equippable characters which level up and gain skills to boost your character, such as strength upgrades or upgrades to themselves which boost their damage or HP, is really not fun at all, since there's zero strategy involved. You just level up and decide which skill they'll learn after enough battles. I easily blew through the first half of this game, killing bosses in a ludicrously low number of hits. I couldn't stand the second half, it was just more of the same, and the story line became very, very stupid. A select few will actually like this sappy love story mixed with something about a summoner going to destroy the world and some other junk that I just didn't care about. The love story was actually the best part, and the rest felt like a filler. There really isn't anything to praise about this game that separates it from previous Final Fantasy games. A sub-par RPG.Final Fantasy 7 and 9 are wonderful examples of how an essentially linear game can be manipulated and changed into something epic and enthralling, thanks to excellent characterisation and plot. Final Fantasy 8 (and, oddly enough, FF 10) are wonderful examples of how to bore people silly while forcing them to sit through some nice-looking battles.
For those gamers who, like me, need to like a character in order to fully appreciate the game's plot, let me say this: Squall is a moody, horrible, angst-ridden Phallocrat. His supporting cast are forgettable, with the exceptions of the consummately annoying Zell Dincht and the ridiculously feeble Rinoa Heartilly. The characters in FF 8 have none of the appeal of Cloud et al from FF 7, or Zidane and the lovable half-breeds from FF 9.
For gamers who don't consider this to be so important, FF 8 still manages to nicely ruin the Final Fantasy reputation by being one of the most boring and unrewarding games in the series. Battles are innumerable and completely random, and fall into 2 categories: extremely easy and unfairly difficult. Case in point; you face Seifer's two main flunkies early on in the game, by which stage your levels are too high to build up quickly on the feeble monsters available in the college & the surrounding areas, and too low to beat these henchmen without massive amounts of luck. The result? You end up running about doing frustrating battle with low-level wildebeests for hours, and the game becomes very, very boring.
The graphics are shamefully poorly-thought out. The pre-rendered backdrops for some of the major levels (Balamb Garden, Edea's House) are bland, and have none of the charm of the cityscapes of FF 7 or the magical countryside vistas of FF 9. The character models are far too complex, and look pixellated and rough at almost all angles. Polygon pop-up didn't die out with the Sega Saturn; it's alive and well and working for Squaresoft. The pre-renders, however, are amazing, approaching the quality of early PS 2 titles in their scale and realism.
The sound is run-of-the-mill poor PlayStation fare, but the music is decent enough. Better, too, is the Magic system, where, instead of spending hours confusing yourself with Materia, you now Junction Elementals and spells. Sadly, the game relies less on Magic and more on difficult Limit Break techniques and expensive items, so this really isn't a huge plus until late in the game.
All in all, FF 8 is a VERY disappointing game, lacking the freedom of exploration of FF 7 and 9. It's a game on wheels, which isn't a bad thing in itself, but when the plot and characters are so forgettable, it becomes a major problem. Steer clear.Well, I wish I could play some of these levels! Sometimes, that's made impossible because they're so dark. I wish it would save my game, too, but it never has. There are patches available for bigger mistakes on their site. I would give anything not to watch those grating cutscenes again and again. The voices are all quite annoying and stilted, though you get the sense the Eidos guys thought the old man at the beginning might have been - he gets tiresome immediately (my child this, my child that, this is how you jump -WAIT!- this is how you jump). Lara is still a bimbo character and it's insulting to both genders, a cynical view of the audience (I wish she would stop breathing heavily!). The controls are difficult. The puzzle elements are still worthwhile, though they are a poor man's Zelda. The 16 year-old Lara was unnecessary, when she gets her backpack we're supposed to care. The likelyhood of her and the old man being in these Cambodian ruins in the daytime and running through it like a preschool adventure playset is small. They seem to toss old TR elements like climbing vines and throwing levers in all the wrong places, these elements are repeated, and there seems to be little real joy in all of it, like they toss the elements out until the game ends. The level designs are unlogical, they detract from the realism that the games used to have and added so much to it. That's why you are bothered when you die from a giant spinning spike wheel that magically floats, not because it's hard, but because you just don't believe things like that are there, it's as though the game breaks it's own rules. I feel like the levels could all have gone a lot further if they just did some heavy internet research on the areas available to play (Egypt has stars and spikes?). Overall, I feel this game was well worth my [money], but the series needs to improve or it will surely die. Undoubtedly, the first Two TR games were the best, they need to return to that, these new games feel like a...commercial spectacle. What I enjoy most about the series is the realism that there can sometimes be, and the puzzles, but mostly the scenery and locales, the action is just the backdrop to me. Buy the first 2 games before thinking about getting this.Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation is the fourth Lara Croft adventure game based entirely in Egypt. A very long and challenging game built on a nice engine with great graphics, Neat animations and neat sound effects. Good storyline and great gameplay with infinite saves. Awesome lighting effects and a creepy atmosphere. Great puzzles but a lot of annoying false paths. Very challenging gameplay but can be too challenging at times because no difficuly option. Good level design with a helpfull training level, But the hub level layout is very confusing and easy to get lost. A Lot of fun doing all the jumping but the controls are as usual very badly done, Auto aim is not perfect and the manual aiming is impossible. Enemy AI is super dumb. Tomb Raider Last Revelation well deserves 4 stars but i will give it only 2 because it does not have good key controls and a difficulty option.I got this game last year and I have only just completed it. In a technical sense, this is indeed better than the other TR games. But I do feel that it is a victim of it's own realisticness. It starts off brilliant and great to play. Especialy the moving train effect. But once you get to the 'City of the Dead' things go downhill. I mean it gets so dark that even with the monitor on full brightness and the house lights out, you still have to lightflares to see whats what. There are also not enough flares to get around with either. Sure this would be the situation in real life, but in real life you have the advantage of 3D vision to guide you. Not in a game.  Not only that, but the levels get boring towards the end aswell. It seems stupid that game programmers would spend out on high-tech graphics and creative innovations and then blanket them with an over abundance of darkness.  Apart from that though. The sound is brilliant. The movies realy fit in well. Lara looks better and (if you can see them) the graphics are great too.Pharaoh is a city building game (like SimCity), but set in Egypt, during the pre-dynastic period.  You start by building a settlement, addressing basic needs and continue onward.  Unlike SimCity, there are various goals to hit such as population goals.
As the game progresses, it gets harder.
Unfortunately, I found myself building and managing the population, but having to check the deities almost constantly.  Unless you hold regular festivals, constantly build shrines, the gods will grow angry and exact revenge on your civilization.  I found it to be more tedious than fun.The main reason that people hate this game is because it came right after Twisted Metal 2 and people were expecting A LOT of improvement, but the expectations were in vain. :(

The game isn't all THAT bad, I mean... Mr. Grimm still cool, there is a new Viper car, you can use "rain missiles" as weapons, some of the characters and stories are VERY funny, the graphics were improved, the Rob Zombie intro song was AWESOME, and the London, Spaceship and Blimp stages were GREAT.
NOW! The reason that this game suck's is because EVERYTHING in the game looks like fake plastic, the special effects are NOT shocking at all, you can't make ANY massive explosion or massive destruction, many characters look lame, if your car turns upside down you have to wait for 5 seconds for your car to stand up, and many stages are VERY small.

P.S: This Twisted Metal sequel is terrible, but at least is NOT GARBAGE as Twisted Metal 4!!! That game wasn't even a Twisted Metal game, that was more like "The Circus War". X(

Adios.Final Fantasy is, and has been for a long time, Squaresoft's flagship product. All the FF products, while not having direct connections to each other, carry similar "themes" -- similarities of gameplay, world design, and so on that make them clearly Final Fantasy rather than something else.
With all the time and effort (not to mention money) expended on them, one would (I think justifiably) expect that the series would generally improve as time went on. Unfortunately, this is not the case.
Final Fantasy VII was a reasonably good FF game, but it was also the first Playstation FF game, and had some advantages which were, at the time, unique to it. It was incumbent upon FFVIII to give us something more -- something cooler and better. It failed.
The overall STORY isn't that bad -- the plot is decent and some of the characters interesting. However, our main character is just not generally likeable; Squall has less interesting personality than Cloud Strife of FFVII, and that's a pretty damning indictment since Cloud didn't develop much personality until some way through the game. More importantly, gameplay is if anything more of a railroading exercise than FFVII -- which, given that VII used the metaphor of a railroad from the beginning, is a sad state of affairs.
By now, Square should have recognized that flexibility of play and so on is a GOOD thing in CRPGs. Chrono Trigger remains popular enough to garner commentary even today, due in great part to its multi-ending design. Why the FF series still relies on the idea that you have no real choices and get dragged from fight to fight boggles the mind; Kewl Komputer Animation doesn't make up for the fact that they haven't added any new game techniques since the Nintendo days. Oh, they have some cute little side games -- card collecting and so on -- but the story itself isn't even captivating enough. Some of the battles can go on long enough to be boring in themselves. Oh, the animation cutscenes are pretty, and some of the music very nice -- and the past timeline sequence is, sadly, more interesting than the main one.
A disappointing effort from the people who have, in past times, produced some of the most innovative and interesting games.If not for Final Fantasy IX switching gears, the franchise may have died from this title. FFVII was a pure marvel and still is, but VIII lacked any good storyline and the characters weren't the least bit interesting. It's a solid piece if you want to have the entire series, let's say, pull it out once in a while to hack at it. It's hard to stay interested most of the time, although it does have some cool CG cut-scenes to do it justice, mostly, it's dull repetition and sits as a rushed follow up to FFVII and it shows. Fans, thank God for IX saving the day, X bringing in the next-generation, and XI, XII coming up. So long from the dullsville FFVIII calls Balaamb. I hope the cadets have retired...this is the worst final fantasy game gameplay wise without a doubt.  not only is the learning curve hours, but after that, you have to spend hours getting magic from the enemies to use and equip.  This game graphic wise looks like it has been in work for a lifetime, and the FMV looks like PS2 or DC.  the gameplay looks like it was made in a lifetime too, and that is a BAD thing.This looked like a promising game and I really enjoyed it ... when I could progress through it.  It was crashy/buggy on win2k.  I was halfway thru the werewolf town episode and hit a bug that no patch fixed unless I restarted the episode, which I was too[upset]to do.
Also, the way to progress is not really that intuitive.  I found myself running around an empty castle a lot trying to figure out wth I'm supposed to do next.  By far the worst aspect of this game was the camera angles.  As you run down a hall, you hit a map trigger that changes your point of view; unfortunately you have no idea what view you will get.  Sometimes you will be looking ahead from behind/above your character, other times you will look at your character's face from ahead/left.  It is weird and extremely unpleasant as you can switch angles during fights accidentally and get your [rear-end]kicked.
The good stuff: The graphics are cool, not the most impressive nowadays (2003-05-06) but still neat.  Although they aren't technically superior anymore (they once were) I still like the way the game looks because the designers made the graphics so creepy.  The art on the walls, the dark woods, crypts, you go through all sorts of cool settings.
The music is creepy too, and really helps set the mood.  This is actually a scary game to play.
The main character is pretty cool.  He's the nameless Clint-Eastwood type with the gravelly voice.
All in all this game had awesome potential but was poorly executed.  Much of this could have been avoided by having 1. more predictable and sane camera angles, and 2. a strategy guide.  A lot of times I was stuck for hours and I missed some hidden place or something.  With a quick cheat I would have had a lot more fun without feeling too guilty.
I hope they come out with a Nocturne 2 that addresses these issues, I would really like to see it.Stunning graphics coupled with very clumsy controls make this game a feast for the eyes but a major bust when it comes to engrossing game play.  In a  world dominated by such near master works as Lucas Arts' Indiana Jones and  the Infernal Machine, different is not necessarily better and the third  person perspective Nocturne offers is as creepy as the games beautifully  dark images and spine tingling story line.  I suppose the object was to  give Nocturne a cinematic edge offered by some of Hollywood's best  horror/thrillers, but cutting from place to place using numerous movie  angels as our gruff but hardly lovable anti-hero "Stranger" runs through  each scene (ground level, over-head, etc) trying to mow down swooping and  snarling creatures of the night, simply doesn't work here and would likely  earn any film student a solid D for effort!  With one additional option,  first person perspective (or even second person), this might have been a  great game, without it, Nocturne swiftly becomes little more than a tedious  test of your 20/20 vision and manual dexterity.  Bottom line, if you can  get it cheap (one major home electronics store recently had it on sale for  $9.99), or can borrow it from a friend, check it out for it's amazing  cutting edge eye candy.  But just like any fine work of art hanging in  some posh museum, you'll pause to consider Nocturne's brilliant textures,  along with it's use of light and shadow but eventually you'll move on to  something much more stimulating and rewarding, like an amusement park.Before I bought this game, I downloaded the demo off theinternet and was completely freaked out.  I rushed out and purchasedthe game and was completely freaked out by the money I wasted.  Do you love impossible control options, very high system requirements and load times that have you kicking your computer?  Then you will love Nocturne! This game had all the perfect elements to become a great game, but it fell short on delivery.  However, if you love the Resident Evil genre, then this game is for you, but I warned you.  ENDWhen people play a Final Fantasy game they expect several things to come out of the finished game!  For one thing a great story, great charicters, cool battle system, drama, comedy, and greatness, cool graphics, and overall a great game!  That said and done Final Fantasy VIII is the worst example of how to make a great RPG!  When a great RPG company like Squaresoft, who been making the best RPG's for years now, comes in and makes a game, people expect it to be great!!!  Esspecally if it's a Final Fantasy game!  Well let me tell you that Final Fantasy VIII is anyting BUT a great RPG!!!  In fact this game is so pooryly thought out I am at a loss of words!  I'm sure you've already herd complaints about the complicated battle system, cumcumber (And glitched) plot, and lack of charicter developement!  So I'll spare you the details for once!  Lets just say Final Fantasy VIII not only gives the Final Fantasy series a bad name, but it also gives RPG's as a whole a bad name!  Thank you.  Have a nice day!This is one of 530 reviews so if you read this I consider myself lucky.  Alright lets get to it.  First off, it was a nice idea.  Finally a game that focused on loving and caring, without being sexual, and helping your fellow man.  However I think that this is all they focused on in production.  The game, and this is sad for a Final Fantasy, is bad.  I'm sorry but it reeks.  SquareSoft is running out of orginal ideas and it is showing.  Although, the ideas were innovative.  Enemies that level up with your characters.  Never will your characters be gods over an enemy.  Unless it's a boss.  For some odd reason boss levels are limited.  So a player can beef up their characters all they want and then beat the messout of the boss without worry.  The Guardian Forces, while still a nice idea, were poorly planned.  A GF is like a Pokemon (in a sick sadistic way).  It gains levels with your character and through it your character can gain abilities.  Problem is GFs can quickly make their 'host' gods very quickly.  At level 15 my main character's strength was through the roof because not only did he have Ifirt equipped but all his strength increases too.  He could cut down enemies in one blow!  While that's nice it takes away from the difficulty of the game.  The battle system is a nightmare too.  If I have to push buttons to get more damage done, then why don't you just program the game to register the extra damage.  Granted this only applies to Squall but it gets very annoying to have to mash buttons to get a character's strength up.  I hated it in Super Mario RPG and I hate it in this game.  The GF spells have to be pumped up if you want it to do any serious damage.  What happened to watching the nice animations and appreciating the work of the artists who designed them.  The story line is my next pet peeve.  The strength of an RPG comes from the story not the gameplay.  The story in this game is shoddy.  Picture a writer with the exact opposite abilities of John Grisham or Micheal Crichton.  It is that bad.  Not only do you have to mash buttons in the battles but you have to mash buttons to get past the annoying long dialouge exchanges (that seem to be written by a pre-schooler with help from their friends).  It is worse than Parasite Eve 2's story.  At least they tried.  I'm done with my tirade now.  You want the truth, this game is not worth [price], it isn't even worth the rental.  Go to a friend who owns this poor excuse for a game and play it there or borrow it.  For those who saw the Charlie's Angels movie.  This is the game the two (since when is it two player) kids are playing when Barrymore pays them a visit.Final Fantasy 8 is the worst of the entire final fantasy series.
As far as game play goes it holds up poorly. Getting new items equip is not a part  of the system even though you can get items to upgrade your weapons nothing  gets done about armor. Levels were pointless your increase was only a  slight one. The monsters did profit a lot from the levels you gained though  and you would easily be at level 99 halfway threw the game. The game  doesn't have many characters and the characters within don't have as much  personality is they did in FF7. The only mini-game within it is a poorly  done card game that gets boring fast. The GF system seems nice at first but  quickly you find out that spending an hour getting the max amount of  something is an easy way to over become powered and takes a lot of time.  The only real control over your characters power level is how much patience  you have for getting more spells into your GFs.
As far as plot goes this  game also hold up poorly to other games. It may start off fine but to avoid  revealing too much I'm just going to say by the second CD its going in a  bad direction and it doesn't turn around. Characters never get as  interesting as they were in FF7 and when you're on the third CD. (I think)  You well hit the one plot stop that leaves only the strong of heart to  actually bother finishing this sorry excuse for an RPG.
The graphics are  only strong point this game has. They are absolutely beautiful. Defiantly  the best ever for when it was made. You may end up summoning GFs you don't  want to summon just to see the pictures they show when summoned.
And  finally as far as length of time it can stay interesting it's a long game  but its only interesting for about 4 hours into the game. If you need it  it's length is one you well need a long time to beat.
Overall this game  is not worth buying unless you really like pretty pictures.This game would have been a MASTERPIECE, had it have not been for the stupidity of blizzard. This game WOULD be extremely fun, but there is one flaw, and this one flaw ruins how much I enjoyed the game: The damn saving option. This really pissed me off. After a hard 3 hours straight of battling, you find out you have to run off to work, so you save and quit the game. After a hard 8 hours of work, you look forward to playin the pretty fun game of Diablo 2 once again. you pop the Cd in the drive, start up the game....WHAT THE HELL?? I JUST BEAT ALL THESE ENEMIES! yes that is right. After you save and quit, the enemies return. sure, its a good way to earn experience, but i think it goes a little too far when you have to defeat about 200 enemies and spend about an hour JUST to get back to where you left off on your last play. At first it's not that bad, mainly because the enemies are not that hard, and there are not many of them. but once i got to the third act, i got so frustrated i just quit the game and didn't play it for a month. This gets so frustrating and time-consuming it is unreal.
I loved the first Diablo, and right after i beat it i went out and bough diablo 2 with an expansion pack RIGHT AWAY, expecting this FANTASTIC game, and all i got was a 3 hour excitement from the first 2 acts. Now, i am going to auction it off of ebay as quick as possible, as the sight of the box i have reminds me of the mistake i made of spending a total of 40 dollars on such crapFirst things first.  This game IS fun, and it got two stars for that only.
Diablo 2 was fun for a while.  Not a long while like Neverwinter Nights, but a little while.  I didn't make it too far into the game because I lost track of the plot, and the game itself was far too repetitive.  Every battle seemed to be the same, and it was all too easy.  The battel system was just point and click, and there was no strategy to it at all.  I know, this is just supposed to be a hack and slash, but it fails even at that.
The graphics are moderately good, they are not bad but not real good either.  The sound is good, probably one of the best parts of the game.
If you want a hack and slash to be addicted to for less than a week, this is the way to go.  You'll be back.  If you want a hack and slash to play for a while, may I reccomend any of the Icewind Dale's.  If you want a hack and slash with a real good plot, try Neverwinter Nights.
I do reccomend this game, but don't go wasting your money on it right now, wait until it is in the bargain bin, so's you don't get mad when you end up geting the game and becoming sick of it in three days.Let's get one thing clear: Diablo II is nowhere near as good as Diablo 1. There are more reasons for this than I can remember, but I'll try to list as many of them as possible.
First off, there's no way to save your progress through the game. All that you can do is save your character. When you reload the game, all of the bad guys are back. This gets EXTREMELY aggravating.
Second, there's just too much stuff! Remember in Diablo 1, where there were a dozen kinds of swords and like a hundred different kinds of armor, not counting the two billion magical prefixes and suffixes and all of the Unique items? Well, that's ten times as bad in D2. There's twice as many different categories of items (belts? what the...?), and there are twice as many items in each category. It doesn't stop there, either: it is now possible for nonmagic items to have prefixes as well, and many of those prefixes mean the same freaking thing! A belt can be "poorly made," "low quality," "slightly lower quality," "chipped," "cracked," "rusty," "damaged," "even more damaged," blah blah blah blah blah umpteen et cetera, and it contributes absolutely JACK FREAKING SQUAT to gameplay! Diablo 1 had 2 different potion strengths: Partial and Full, and that was all you needed, but D2 saw fit to create five different potion strengths. You get the idea.
Third, the outdoor areas are WAAY too freaking big. Even with Automap turned on, it's impossible to tell whether or not you've explored an outdoor area fully.
Fourth, the new spellcasting system just doesn't make the slightest bit of sense. A Barbarian at a given level will have just as many magical abilities, AND be just as good at casting them, as a Sorceress on the same level! And how are these magical abilities acquired? Does your character learn spells by reading spellbooks, like in Diablo 1? No, they learn spells by killing things. Yup, you just go out and kill monsters, and you suddenly know how to cast fireballs. WHAT THE HECK KIND OF SENSE DOES THAT MAKE?!?
Fifth, character classes have no maximum stats. This SEVERELY WEAKENS the distinctions between the character classes, and for those hackers out there, it makes it impossible to have a "maxed-out" character.
Sixth, there's too much stuff! I know I've mentioned this before, but it's just wrong that you could pick up every item in the whole game and still only see a tenth of all the different combinations of non-magical items.
Seventh, there's no more Apocalypse spell. Apocalypse was a cool spell that should not have been removed.
D2 does have a few good ideas, though. Gems are very cool, but the fact that they come in five or six different quality levels, plus the fact that items can have widely varying numbers of sockets for them, only worsens the "too much stuff" problem. The Horadric Cube is an awesome idea, because it allows you to do really fun things. You put random things into it, and if you're lucky, they'll combine into something new! You can take 3 gems of a given type and quality, and the Cube will compress them into one gem of the next highest quality. Combine 2 packs of crossbow bolts to get one pack of arrows, or 2 packs of arrows for one pack of bolts. No one but Blizzard knows all of the possibilities. I also love the addition of "set" items, or in other words, unique items that power each other up as you find more from each set. Unfortunately, it is, for all practical purposes, impossible to find all of the items in any one set, leading to hours upon hours of frustrated searching. Let's see, I mentioned Gems, the Horadric Cube, set items... were there any other positive additions to D2? I can't remember any more...
Diablo 2 can be fun and playable in its own way, but compared to Diablo 1, it's just horrible. There were too many bad ideas, and too many good ideas that were badly implemented. Don't play this game unless you've gotten bored with Diablo 1....I finally broke out of the hyptnotization that the game had gotten me into, and now I realize this game for what it is...I didn't like the game...battle.net is a JOKE. Yeah, you heard me. B.net gets about as FAR AWAY from 'quality' as you can GET. Yeah, I just love getting disconnected every 5 minutes and racing straight into the Black Wall of Death, and not seeing my messages appear for 5 minutes, and not being able to pick up items!
For another, this game gets extremely tedious after your first month. It's fun, and then, after you've beaten the game 60 times, you realize it for what it is- clicking. Over and over. Then clicking some more. OH GOD THE CLICKING NEVER STOPS. EVEN IN MY HEAD. AAAARRGHHH ITS DRIVING ME INSANE.
Really, though, I can almost guarantee that for 60% of you, in 6 months, you will no longer be playing. Either that or you will have gone insane by the CONSTANT CLICKING ...This is not an RPG, not by a long shot. About the only thing it has in common with an RPG is choosing classes and experience points. For one thing, it has none of the complexity that many loved RPGs have. Some of us LIKE flipping through inch-thick manuals, thinking 'OMGZ THIS IS SO COOL'. Plus, I have not seen a SINGLE person role-playing...Everyone is entitled to their own opinion. And this game is an enjoyable, wonderful game...for the first 3-5 months. Then the varnish all soaks off and you see the paint falling off the wood.
I would suggest buying this used, or waiting until it's somewhat lower priced...because you probably won't be playing it for a long time in the long run. ...The only diabolical thing about this game is how bad it is. Blizzard's strategy is this: make the game so much fun in the beginning that you sell lots o copies and than later it is no more fun. They make more money faster that way. But wasting money for this game which you will shelf after realizing there's nothing more to do is a bad idea. Hack, slash, pick up, hack slash, level up, pick up, hack, slash, player killer, hack, slash, kill, level up. That's how i can describe the game. Do yourself a favor, if you're a hack and slasher buy a hack and slasher that is actual FUN and doesn't try to be something it's not. RPG fans should really turn away from this.
...Besides having all the system requirements necessary and still not being able to run the game, my biggest problem with it is not being able to save  the game state. This completely ruins it for me--and probably for anyone  else interested in the single-player aspect. It is truly awful to have to  go back somewhere to get items that were perhaps left behind, only to have  to fight everything that you already killed once all over again. Sadly,  this ruins the game and storyline for me. I know other folks who aren't  bothered by this at all, however. For me, though, it's just a terrible way  to have released the game. I honestly think that they should've kept that  save feature in the game, even if it meant releasing the game later.When Diablo II came out I bought it immediately expecting it would be at least as fun as the first possibly more fun.
I got bored of the game easily.  The thing I really didn't like was certain enemys that just run  away. You have to chase them for what seems like an eternity till you  finally catch them and slaughter them, and if you decide to just let them  run away they'll continuously come back to haunt you. Then to make things  worse the game doesn't save what you've killed so if you decide your done  playing for the day the next time you play all the runners will be back.  These enemys are called flayers and when I first encountered them I got  bored of fighting them over and over and discontinued my gameply and moved  to a different game.
Another thing I didn't like is running. Not that  running is bad, in fact I love the fact that you can move faster, the  problem with it is that the background (trees, grass, etc.) really bothered  my eyes with it scrolling past so quickly. That is not as big a deal as the  run-a-way enemys, however.
If you like to chase endless hords of enemys  then the game is for you.  If not don't bother with it.The game has many flaws in it making it almost unplayable. The most notable is the Anti-copy feature on the CD's themselves making it impossible for some CD and DVD drives to read. At present Blizzard has no  plans to fix this feature. Also the graphics and lag time in both online  and single play are bad. In order to get the game to play you will need to  tinker with the drivers and system options to get it to work. Reminds me of  the old days of  DOS where a Boot Disk had to be created to change your  memory options. The box reports a minimum of 32Meg of memory, I would think  it is closer to 64Meg. If your character incounters a large amount of  monsters it will bog way down and the monsters will kill you before you get  a hit in. If you must absolutely have the game I would wait a month for the  problems to be fixed. There are already 2 patches in less then 2 weeks with  number 3 in the works.This is it!  Is this what the hype was all about? Totally disappointed with this game. Again, a game that took 3 years to develop isn't a guarantee that it'll be good (Daikatana anyone?). Diablo 2 is just all hot air. Lets start with the bugs. First of, let's start with the technical goof ups. The  game had problems with some CD drives. It takes me 3 to 5 tries just to  have my Creative DVD recognize the CD. This is a major bug. Second, the CD  had problems ejecting from my drive, thanks to the patch they released  v. 1.02, it still didn't fix it. Thanks for nothing Blizzard. Third, the game  won't run on my GeforceDDR under Direct 3D. So now, Im running the game  using DirectDraw from my GeforceDDR. I ran the game using 3dfx glide and  the graphics were so washed out and hazy. What do you expect from glide?  Now let's go with the gameplay. It is absolutely similar with the first  Diablo. Sure they upgraded the graphics and all, but gameplay is still the  same old Diablo. The game comes in 3 CDs. The first CD will take you only  about 4 hours to finish it because the monsters are just too dumb and too  easy to beat. You'll have the case of BOREDOM by the time you finish CD1.  As you progress deeper into the game, you start to realize that the  challenge becomes more of simply just finishing it because you paid [good money]  for it rather than seeing the end of the game. Motivation factor is zero.  There were a lot of new items and weapons not found in the old Diablo but  new items and new weapons just isn't enough to save this game. Maps are 3  times bigger than the old Diablo. Other than that, this game is just a  waste of time because it runs and feels like the old Diablo which is  already a tired old engine to spend your gaming hours on. I enjoyed playing  Nox more than Diablo II. Newcomers in the Diablo world will feel just dandy  with this game. Old Diablo players will go ho-hum with this one. My take on  this game, wait for the retailers to put it on the bargain shelves.Having played the Twisted Metal series for a few years now, I can honestly say that Twisted Metal III, while having an initial gleam at first play, it wears itself out fairly quickly. The gleam I'm speaking of is the slick graphics and the incredibly different game play. It tries to be something new, which it is, but it improves in all the wrong ways.

Allow me to explain :

Weapons Inventory. Instead of a max capacity of the total number of weapons in your inventory, you are limited to how many of each weapon you can have. For example, I can pick up 10 homing missiles but no more. The rest of my inventory has to be stocked with other useless weapons like Speed Missiles (more on that in a bit). In previous TM installments, you could keep building your homing missile capacity, and carry only those, as long as you didn't exceed the max capacity. Annoying.

New Weapons. Okay, so initially I thought the (((Rain Missile))) was the best thing since sliced bread. But really, the rain missile doesn't do very much apart from visual appeal. The missile shoots into the air and you detonate it, and a ring of fire falls down like five mini-napalms. It doesn't do the damage the napalm does, but only allows the cars to drive through so they start on fire...at least until they turbo (stop-drop-and-roll in TM maneuvers) out of it 2 seconds later. Minimal damage done.

The introduction of the (((Speed missile))) was the worst mistake of the weapon category. It's a fast missile that has the strength of three machine gun bullets. If you can fire them fast, you can do some damage, but they're so useless during combat that it really doesn't even matter.

(((Remotes))) are plenty but do much less damage than in TM2. (((Freeze missiles))) (the left-right-up maneuver) do not hit enemies like they used to. It is much harder to freeze an enemy. This can be frustrating.

Enemies. New characters are added, some are great, some not so great. Your enemies now have the A.I. that allows them to steal items from in front of you. If they need health, they will race you for it and take the health. This is especially frustrating when you are fighting Minion and you have one shot left to kill him and he quickly finds full health. *Cue controller hitting floor*

The levels are not very large. Not much scenery and not much to discover. There's a few hidden places you can find to explore, but for the most part it's very limited.

All in all, TM3 falls flat. The previous installments are much better both in game-play value, and in overall playability.

If you can find this cheap, get it. Otherwise pass it up.I found this game to be just so so. With computer graphics you'd think that they'd be able to make the aliens more alien. They remind me of stormtroopers in black armour. I feel this game was limited to 1930's stile imagination.I was so disappointed in this game.  It really had very little story line and the graphics were poorly done as well as the puzzles.  I may have spent 3 hours on this game from start to finish and continued to be disappointed with the ending of the game.  About all I can say about this game is that they tried...I do like pastoral games, but this one was just a shade too soporific for me. I got about halfway through before I realized that I just didn't care if the aliens destroyed Earth or not. Bad sign!I bought this when I was in my "Adventure" mode. Several other games earned my dollar, such as Lightbringer, Gabriel Knight 3, Kings Quest 8, etc. This one, however, was not really with the $19.95 I spent.
The visuals are beautiful. The gameplay is too linear however. You have to "do this" before you can "do that." There is no way to accomplish your goals in multiple ways. Whereas this concept was astonishing 3 years ago, it no longer appeals to the gamer.
Another gripe: WAY TOO SHORT. If Al Gore had played and beaten this game, he would have demanded a recount and a re-recount. (LOL...oh, the political humor!)
Buy this game only if you truly are a fan of mindless puzzles and rail gameplay. If you want a little more freedom in a game with a little more depth, story, character development and replay value, look elsewhere.Rogue squadon is somewhat fun to play but the majority of the missions are hard to beat. the 3D enviroment is cool looking and on some levels there are places you can see that are straight out of the movie such as Jabba the hutt's palace on Tattoine.
The main problem i have with this game is on the Hoth and Deathstar mission.(use password DEADDACK to get to them)on the Hoth mission you wrap a cord around Imperial walkers to trip them which is tricky to do. As for the Deathstar mission, the scenery is wrong. In the movie Luke fires at the exhaust port at the end of the trench, in the game the target is on the ground. But that's not what bothers me most though, After you hit your target it just says "Mission Complete" They should've had a cinematic sequence where the Deathstar blows up. That doesn't happen in the game which leaves you feeling angry and unsatisfied.When this thing was new it was certainly all the rage, but its main rival, the Sony Playstation was still a step ahead no matter Nintendo did.  Nintendo releases games like Goldeneye and Starfox, two GREAT games, but then Square and Sony release Final Fantasy VII to america, which certainly changed things.  On specifics, the N64 is 5 times more powerful than the playstation.  But the N64 cartridges hold no where near as much space as the playstations black CDs.  Why Nintendo didn't bother to use CDs as they originally planned confuses many to this date.  CDs last longer, and in truth, are harder to damage.  A bad drop on a tile floor may send fragments of plastic and silicon from your "F-Zero X" could be all over the kitchen floor.  Nintendo did have one thing going for it over Playstation, remakes of classic games.  With the 8bit Nintendo, they started some great games out.  Then with the 16bit Super Nintendo, they made 16bit counterparts to the 8bit games.  Now with this 64bit system, they made counterparts to the 16 bit games.  This was their edge, and it made the system sell very well.  In the long run was this systems downfall.  Games are much harder to produce for N64 than they are playstation.  Even though it it more powerful than the playstation, it is still second to it.  What will happen soon, is anyone guess.  Nintendo next year will release their new Gamecube.  Gamecube doesn't play DVDs like Sony's Playstation 2, and it doesn't appear so far to be anymore powerful.  Playstation 2 will be hard to beat for one, as you can see by it's current demand.  It seems that Nintendo has become the underdog, with giants such as Microsoft entering the race.  Perhaps they'll pull through, its unknown.  Sega's Dreamcast is certainly on it's way down, it will not be possible to compete with the much more powerful Playstation 2 and Microsoft's X-Box, and possibly the morepowerful gamecube.  Word to the wise, if you're planning to buy a top of the line system, I do not currently suggest this system.  Dreamcast is a good bet for the buck, but waiting a while seems to be a wiser choice.Trespasser is not a good shooting dinosaur game. It's frustrating and you're wandering around going nowhere with a stick. If you get a stick as a weapon, you know this game is going to be really bad. Second of all, where the heck are all the dinosaurs? I see a dino on the cover, dontcha think there should be some in the game? What else is bad? Well, I don't even want to talk about the graphics. They look like something you could find on an old Super Nintendo game. The camera angles are just plain awful. Most of the time, you're stuck in a wall with your puny stick. Next, the controls stink. You have to press another button while holding another button to walk. You can't walk straight because of the bad camera angles, you end up walking off a cliff. Whoopee. I'm having a lot of fun holding a stick and walking off cliffs. The only thing that stops this horrible game from getting the dreaded 1 is the music CD inside. You can listen to 7 music tracks on your CD player, watch 5 music videos on your computer, and ignore the other crap on the CD. Now, most of the tracks on the CD really do stink. But, the Powerman 5000 video, Propellerheads' Take California, and the Propellerheads video Bang On! keep the track from being just as bad as the game. So, whoever made this game should thank the music CD because it kept it away from being really really really bad. Oh, wait it already is. 2 stars.The problem with Star Trek games is that they try to be too much like Star Trek. Sound confusing? It is. To break the mold, Star Trek producers are going to have to lean on other designs because the way they make their games now just isn't getting it done. I mean, how can one series of games, with all the countless titles, all be so mind-numbingly below average games?
The problem with Starfleet Command is ambition. The game boasts true 3-D combat. This isn't true in the slightest. If you want 3-D space combat, go buy Homeworld. Starfleet command is on two axi, the X and Y. No mention whatsoever of the Z axis. Everything is played on a flat plane. Now, I'm no expert of space travel, but this just isn't accurate, nor does it make for an enjoyable experience.
Don't expect to use your torpedoes with this game either. They miss almost every time you launch them. And it isn't because of anything you're doing wrong: they just miss. The game is also very hard to figure out in its ship setup stage. If you want to load certain shuttles on your ship, you actually have to tell the game to NOT load them to get them to be there. It is backwards thinking, and I cannot believe that they shipped the game with errors in the interface like this.
Overall, it isn't terribly bad, but is not very good either. It is better than 2 stars but not quite at 3 stars either. I'd rate it 50%. It has some nice features, such as being able to command a starship and be in charge of every feature of that ship, but you soon find that, with the absense of hotkeys for most parts of the ship, this game turns into a micromanagement simulation when you don't have time to micromanage because you're being shot at. The AI is generally dumb in the game when they are isolated, but some missions can be near impossible, and combine that with the fact that your "wingmen" do not do anything helpful, it can be very frustrating when trying to destroy over 30 Orion Pirate ships in one certain Federation mission. That's just it: some missions are impossible to beat, and the strategy guide does not help in the slightest.
To make a long story short, I played this game for about 10 days, then uninstalled it on my hard drive and sold it in an online auction. The game just does not deliver what it should for what a starship combat simulation should.I really want to know who it is out there who seems to think that because you slap a recognizable name like Star Trek on a product and sell it is all one has to do. I also want to know how it is that two completely separate game companies, Interplay and Activision, can produce two separate games  (Starfleet Command and Star Trek: Armada) that work almost the same and  reek of the same shoddy workmanship. It is products like these that make me  realize why I have abandoned Star Trek fandom in the first place. Because  like Deep Space Nine and Voyager, they are so lacking in the creativity  that made the franchise so worthwhile in the first place.
 Starfleet  Command-a space combat game by Interplay (Quicksilver), is so bereft  intuitive control that it becomes a laborious task to make any ship you  control do anything useful. Case in point, in my first mission with my  frigate sent after Orion pirates, it took me 15 minutes just to hammer down  the enemy ship's shields and constantly fiddling with my ship's weapons  systems just to get it to fire at the Orion. Of course while all this is  going on my frigate is endless rotating and turning all over the map. Why  should it be harder to NOT do something than it is to do something. At  least in Armada you can simply drag-and-select your ship(s) and click  elsewhere on the map to get them to go there. In Starfleet Command, it  takes so long to get your ship to do anything that I was given to wonder  why I had to select crew members for my new ship in the first place.
  And why, in the year 2000, with all the great computer games out there and  the high level of coding in those games, are we still playing so-called 3D  space combat games in 2 dimensions? I do not care if they is based on the  Starfleet Battles board game, I played that to and realized that it was  limitation with it as well. Why is it so hard to work in the 3rd dimension  and enable the player to go `Up' or `Down'? We live in a 3 dimensional  world and as Homeworld proved, it's easy to control, because the  programmers made an interface that was simple and intuitive as well as  functional. I am also given to wonder why people are not more critical  about products like this when they are so inferior when compared to similar  programs. If you comparison shop for a car, why wouldn't you do the same  for a piece of software. It isn't like Starfleet Command is the only one of  its kind. It is your money afterall.
 Just because it has `Star Trek'  tacked on to it does not automatically make it good: Remember Star Trek  Voyager? Maybe my standards are too high or maybe I shouldn't feel ripped  off for spending $... and having the pervasive sense of not getting my  money's worth.I really had my heart set on Toy Commander and when I got it, the game just didn't deliver! The game concept is really cool on paper but it didn't translate into a good game. The jerky camera which comes as a result of the poor vehicle control actually makes me sick everytime I play it! Control is so important in any 3D game and this game just lacking, big time!
The multi player mode is also disappointing as the small vehicles get lost among the colourful stages. The game is just not fun! The graphics and the sounds are great but the game is just lacking in the fun department.
I'm sorry people but the bottom line is that you can pass on this game and be quite contented because you saved a couple of bucks.My N64 didn't come with very much. I paid $60, and it came with the wires and Perfect Dark, but I had two major issues. One, it didn't come with a Jumper Pak or Expansion Pak, which meant I had to go and buy one separately, and on the controller that came with it, the left C button didn't work. It may not seem important, but not being able to use an item slot or move the camera in a certain direction isn't very fun.This game is so boring, I never finished it. For one, you can't die, you just resurrect, so why even care if you get killed. Also, you can get lost and never finish a mission and not care because even if you do, nothing happens. You don't build up armor or weapons and who cares any ways because, oh right, you can't die. You also can't build up a hunting party and people you meet have no real purpose because you can go anywhere. I never figured out the importance of any of the story line.this game gets a lot of great reviews, and i guess almost ten years ago, this game was considered cutting edge with RPGs for PCs. i only bought this game two months ago, and i feel it's only okay. the graphics are a bit bland, which creates problems because sometimes your character will have to find something in the game environment but since so much on the screen is either shadowed or looks the same, it's hard to spot important things. also, the AI can be maddeningly frustrating. you "control" a group of about five players, but they'll do the most ridiculous things, like running into danger, standing and simply getting hit, not attacking. this becomes a serious issue towards the end of the game when you have to fight a lot and need your characters to be on point instead of doing things which specifically gets them hurt and killed. overall, this game is okay, the storyline is okay. it's just a blah sort of game.When I ordered my N64 it was listed as newly refurbished in excellent condition with 1 Controller and 1 Game.  When I finally got home I opened the box to find a faded scratched up N64 with the original out dated jumper pack and a dirty completely worn out Controller with the Analog Stick nearly fallen off.  I also got the game without the manual in Excellent condition otherwise, but it was a title nobody has ever heard of.  I installed the unit to my TV and it turned on with visable shaking screen, but I was put off by the poor condition of the product and have decided not to use it in my living room.  I got what I paid for, but the item was NOT in excellent condition.I will admit it i reserved the nintendo 64 months in advance. Sure when i got it i thought it was great, but after months of defending it against my classmates and their playstations, i decided to get my own. It by far surpasssed the n64's enjoyment. Sure the n64 has better graphics, but playstation was the better games and better sound. In my opinion nintendo aims their games for a much younger audience. Many of their games are not apealing to the 14+ crowd. Playstation provides way more games for this age group, along with games for the younger group, but they can still be injoyable for the older gamers. The playstaion controler is much better in design. The dual shock controller is the best that i have seen, but who wants to put that bulky heavy rumble pack in the back of the n64 controller? I hate the memory pack for n64, one season on qb club fills the whole thing, theres 20 bucks gone for a game that costs 60 in the first place. That brings me to another point, games are alot cheaper pn playstation, you are looking at a 20 dollar diference. If you are deciding between a playstation or a n64 i would go with the playstation. If you are buying a system for a younger gamer then i would consider the n64.Yet another in the turgid 'Wing Commander' series, 'Prophecy'thankfully reduces the amount of dull, plotless FMV, whilst notsignificantly improving the gameplay, which doesn't seem to have evolved very much since the original 'Wing Commander'. Your ship still doesn't 'feel' as if it is flying through space, the supposedly-invincible bad guys are more of a nuisance than a threat, and if you fail a mission it will probably be because you failed to protect something that you were not told about.
Imagine watching a bad, low-budget science fiction film whilst playing a modern homage to 'Star Raiders' and you have the game in a nutshell. ENDOkay. Some people (Like 10 and 12 year olds) think this game is sooo cool. This game so very unrealitic. Infact, everything about this game is stupid. The weapons are okay, but when you fire, there is no recoil that makes you reticule (The cross thingy that helps you aim) go up and down. Also, 1 shot from any gun kills an enemy (Which is pathetic) so why put your M4A1 rifle on burst? Just use single shot to conserve ammo. The games graffics are as [bad] and the screams that the enemies make when you shoot them are corny and cartoony. I suggest that you do not buy this game because of the reasons listed above. Please, save your money and buy a better game like Counter-Strike (The best game ever made) Half-Life (The second best) or Rainbow Six: Raven Shield (The third best) If you are looking for realism, DO NOT look here at this game. Its pathetic.It seems that most of the people who played this game liked it.  And I must say that when I got it, I was expecting a better experience than I got, something along the lines of Rainbow Six with more running and shooting.  However, as opposed to most of the reviews I saw, Delta Force was a huge dissapointment.  With horrible graphics (Maybe it's my computer, but they didn't even have a strafing animation or realistic grass) and stupid extras as weapons (see the pathetic explosion from a strike) the game was a massive waste of money.  I'm beginning to think that everone likes it because it's so cheap."De plane! De plane! It's stuttering! De plane!" First of let me say that you need a computer the size of the Empire state building to run this game. I got a PIII 800 with a GeForce 256 card and a 256 memory and  this game tore it to shreds in a matter of minutes. This made me think  again about upgrading my system. As long as you fly straight it's ok; that  is if you want to fly to the North pole or the South pole everytime you  boot up this game. But once you turn the aircraft, you'll experience  graphics turbulence. You'll feel your computer shudder and shake as it  battles it's way to redraw the scenery. You'll see your frames slow down  really bad. Lower the graphics settings? Try it and you'll just make this  game laugh in your face. Download the patch? Yes, I did and it was still  stuttering. You can make every upgrade you want on your computer but if the  game is the problem then it's a lost cause. If you're thinking about  picking up this game, make sure you have a powerful computer that runs on  nuclear energy. Like most other Microsoft Flight Sims, this one is geared  more towards the gamer side and not so much on the real simulator  enthusiasts. The planes are just too easy to fly. You could ask your kid  brother to do the take-off procedure. Realism is not that all real as the  game boasts itself to be. The game does have its own pluses though like a  huge database of airports, downloadable Jeppesen weather reports, and of  course there's a lot of third party support on this. If you're a gamer who  wants to try flight sims then pick this game up. If you're a simulator ,  then pick up something else like Fly 2K! (very realistic) or Aerowinx  744(very very realistic).This is just like Starcraft except it's not nearly as good....if you like Starcraft this is a big dissapointment compared to it.The first Age of Empires was great. The second one just plain sucked. Sure it has good graphics and an easy to use interface, but the game would always crash both of my computers. You can only play in 800x600 or above  which is a downside also. My computers are not old either, one is a 300p-2  160megs ram 17 inch monitor, voodoo3 etc. The other is a 450 amd k6-2 96  megs ram, Ati graphics, 15 inch monitor. I just wanted to put this warning  out to those who will be purchasing it. It may work fine for you, but I had  problems. It sure is not addictive as the first AOE. Buggy software! Blahh!  I am not anti Microsoft by the way.Asheron's Call is a basic RPG played online. You create your character from three different races of humans (basically English, Arabian or Japanese) and then assign skills and stats to customize your character. And then you're launched into the world of Asheron's Call.
The first thing that strikes you is the scale of the game. It's huge. The second thing is the unavoidable question: What do I do know? Now here's what I did: After entering the game I wandered around for an hour or two trying to make scense of it all. I was then asked by another player if I wanted to swear allegiance to him (which meant that he would be my patron and help me get started with my char.). So I then followed my patron around for a few hours and did what he told me to do. I killed a lot of monsters and was given a lot of equipment. This quickly became boring and I quit playing and traded the game in at my local games store for a copy of "Sacrifice" (which was much more exciting).
The main problem with an online RPG is, in my opinion, the lack of meaning or a goal. At least in the beginning. You just wander around and kill things. There's no quests. There's no nothing. Just wandering around in this huge (note: to get an idea of how huge it really is, read Douglas Adam's description of infinity in "The Hitchiker's Guide To The Galaxy") world. Another things that really bothers me, is the fact that you have to pay a monthly fee ($... in this case) to play a game you initially paid a fair sum of money for (in my case, $...). Why is this? I'm sure there are some expences in keeping the servers going, but not $... a month for each player. On Microsoft's webpages, it said that there were over 200k people playing the game. Multiply that number by $... and you get the staggering amount of $... a month (no way it costs that much to maintain the servers). Capitalism rules, I guess.Even though this game has a HUGE map, great graphics, and everything you need to make the perfect RPG, it still stinks. I know this may sound crazy but it really isint. The main problem is combat. You select where you want to attack (high, medium, or low) and the computer does the rest. Also you have to pay 10.00 a month to play it. There are many other reasons why this game is absolutely no fun to play but trust me it is no fun at all. Remember, great graphics does not make a game, gameplay does.Well if it is anything like FF2, I might not play them, I liked FF1 and FF2 but they are too simple for me to finsihWhen EA sports got the rights to WCW I guess they thought about how to do it, do they go with the way THQ did it, or the way ACCLIAM would? They seemed to be able to make a graphic that is in between both designs! It's kind of the THQ game play with WWF Attitudes graphics in a way. The graphics of the wrestlers and motion in this game look like Attitudes style only they look stupid, each character looks like a big head on a small body with skinnier legs, they look like they are going to start hopping around the ring like a rabbit or a kangaroo or something.

The game has so many flaw...

- No costume change for any wrestler.
- Cant edit wrestlers
- Created wrestlers cannot have there moves chosen individually. You have to select a pre programmed set of moves from one of the existing wrestlers in the game. And you cant even select a different finishing move which is stupid because it shows an option to change it but if you change it to say the Jacknife Powerbomb then it will change the previous move list to that of Kevin Nash.
- Too many moves are wrong, not done right, given to the wrong wrestler ect and high flyers like Rey Mysterio don't have off the rope moves or anything, there basically grounded. or moves are missing, hogans leg drop is not a finisher, Nash doesnt do that size up thing in the corner, scott hall has no choke slam, lex luger has no torture rack, sting does headscissors, but its the wrong headscissors, he does a cruiserweight one instead of the regular one, randy savage doesnt raise his arms on the top rope elbow, god knows what else is missing.
- Moves just become repeated and it gets boring. Every charactor feels about the same to control.
- It sucks to only be able to hit your opponent with a weapon 2 or 3 times before they block it (every time, no joke) the weapons don't consist much more then chairs and bats.
- Going backstage is nothing special. 4 weapons and nowhere to go but back to ring side.
- The codes are annoying to have to put in up to 15 digit codes every time you wanna access it - meaning you have to put them in each match, then once you finish you have to put them in again.
- There has been little attention payed by the creators to the background.
- Everything is too programmed. You figure out right away that eventually you can hit your opponent twice on the ground before they get up and finishing moves don't mean your opponent will stay down like they should. I did a 3-way match and dropped about a million diamond cutters on them and they get up right away.
- Only one special move for each wrestler. And all are done the same way in a grapple, which means wrestlers like Bret Hart and Stings Sharpshooter are not there finishers!
- You can only select about 5 tunes for a CAW's ring music.
- The entrances are very dodgy.
- The commentary becomes VERY annoying after you've heard it repeated 1000 times in the one match.
- CAW can't choose attires from the other wrestlers, or a moustache like Hogan to make a CAW version of the yellow and red Hogan.
- A lot of moves are missing; Booker T's axe kick finisher thing, Bret Harts 'hart attack', double team moves, ways to turn your opponent around to grabble them from behind, Hogan's big boot, there is only one pin unless it's a move - not one of them hooks the leg or anything unless it's a move given to them, taunts are missing, entrance taunts are wrong or missing.
- It's another game that has completely ignored Hulk Hogan's Leg Drop as being a devastating finisher, it's simply just a running leg drop that doesn't even look like the height Hogan would do it from and I don't know if I've ever seen Hogan pull off a standing drop kick before. It's just an average leg drop with little damage.
- all the backstage rooms are the same, there just a diffrent picture on the walls which is boring.
- Goldberg's not only in the game, but also on the damn cover.
And finally, it's WCW.

My recommendation is WWF NO MERCY. However the WCW fan may prefer WCW/NWO Revenge. THQ made the better wrasslin' games on the 64. Stick with them.

====================================================
Codes to try and make this game a bit better (although you have to enter them each time

  CODE  RESULT
  CBCKRMS  - ALL BACKROOMS
  PLYHDNGYS  - ALL HIDDEN WRESTLERS
  CHT4DBST  - Q. F. T. B. CHEAT
  PLYNTRCLSC - CLASSIC NITRO SET
  MSKDLTLRY  - REY MYSTERIO WITH MASK
  MKSPRCWS  - CREATE A WRESTLERS WITH FULL ATT.
  DPLGNGRS  - PLAY AS SAME WRESTLERS
  **ENTER THESE CODES IN THE PPV PASSWORD MENU**I hated WCW Mayhem for a lot of reasons. One, way too much production level was spent on making the characters look good and they still looked awful. The Create A Wrestler was a total pain. Why? Because if you picked certain items of clothing for a wrestler, it didn't match and he looked stupid. Honestly, if you picked Nash's pants, you either had to be skins on top or wear his tank top as well because nothing else matched or looked right. That and you didn't get to pick any of their moves. Again, another F- for effort.
Basically all you did was create a new non-matching-outfit-having wrestler with someone else's moves. Bad. Very bad. So bad that's why WWF Warzone never did that type of Create a Wrestler ever again. And not saying that WWF Attitude was the heart stopping game that it was supposed to be, but at least they learned their lesson and never did that type of Create a Wrestler option.
The grappling totally ate. I was basically kicking, punching and occassionally jumping off the top rope in an attempt to win. I could not get the grapping. It was seriously that bad. Every now and then, I'd pull off a little something, but after that one time, I could never replicate the move. Again another G- for effort (the grading was so low that I couldn't even give it an F because it was that bad).
I wouldn't waste time or money on this title. I still think the better N64 wrestling game was WCW/NWO or WCW Revenge. If you really want to play this bad attempt, then go ahead but I won't be responsible when after you play it, realize that it WAS THAT BAD and throw it out the window.WCW STINKS. At least that's what most WWF, ECW, and other wrestling fans believe, and from the looks of this game, they're right. The only fun thing about this game is the 4-man battle royal. Everything else, the character designs, the entrances, the bizarre physics of contact (I punch while you're a mile away; you feel it) just smell worse than... Santa after a rowdy elf party. Stay away from this game... it gets one star for the battle royal, and the other for just booting up when you turn it on. Go buy Tony Hawk's Pro Skater.I think that the review at the top of this game has it right -- not enough questions.  Also, the $100 through $1000 questions are too hard (compared to the TV show).
Another annoying feature is the inability to skip past stuff that you have seen a million times, that is redundant to you.
I bought this game out of boredom, and I think that I paid about $... for it.  If you like the TV show, then don't pay any more than that.  But, if you see it on the rack real cheap, then hey, pick it up.As others have mentioned, this product has serious flaws--especially with regard to the pitiful number of questions available.  For me, however, a larger complaint is the surprising unfaithfulness to the show.
The  so-called "Fastest Finger" questions are nothing really like  those on the show.  You don't compete to put the answers in the right  order; you just buzz in when the computer flashes up the proper  arrangement.  It's related to the set of skills necessary on the real  show--but it's not the same.
Likewise, when answering questions in the  "hot seat", you don't really get the "Is that your final  answer?" prompting in a consistent way.  Only some of the questions  allow for it.
Also, the questions in the pre-$1000 range are unusually  difficult, compared with the show. There, they're ridiculously easy,  complete with flatly idiotic possible answers.  Here, by contrast, the  early questions are much more serious.  They're still comparatively easy,  but they're not the gimmes they are on the real show.
Hopefully, the  producers will have found a way to be more faithful to the show--and give  us more questions--for the second edition of this game.Holy fat mama! This game was the most hideous thing I have ever played.  Not only is it easier than the TV show, its twice as dumb!  The first and second questions I was asked the first time I played were the same stinkin'  question.  From the third game on, I never went without a repeat question.  You should stay away from this.  It will probably eventually drive you  insane by the low-fi sound clip of Regis saying "Final Answer?"  anyways.  Try some of the not-as-pathetic games by eXpert software.  Such  as extreme paintball, deer hunter, and other quickly thrown together  titles.  It gets a second star for being functional (barely)As a big fan of the TV show, I was really looking forward to the home version, and undoubtedly so were thousands of other fans.  Unfortunately, the folks at Disney and Jellyvision were clearly aware of that, and the  rush was obviously on to get this game to market as soon as possible,  before the craze could die down.  The result is a game that doesn't come  close to matching either the TV show or Jellyvision's previous  efforts.
The most obvious problem is the limited number of questions.  This problem is greatly compounded by the fact that the game doesn't seem  to make note of which questions have already been asked--a simply  inexcusable error, which results in repeated questions after only a few  games.
The box proudly touts the fact that a "virtual Regis"  hosts the game; and sure enough, he's there.  But his involvement in the  project was clearly limited; he doesn't read any of the questions, only  providing the pre- and post-question patter.  That's understandable, given  the amount of money that Regis would have probably demanded for such a  large recording job; but it does greatly diminish the illusion of being on  the show.
The game's incorrect pacing destroys the rest of that illusion.  Instead of encouraging the player to take his/her time as the show does, a  30-second clock is inexplicably added.  And while the game rushes you  through the questions themselves, it needlessly slows down between them.  Since the designers couldn't have Regis read the questions, they clearly  wanted to maximize his involvement between questions; so the game stops  after every question while Regis delivers one of a set of long canned  remarks.  This is tolerable later in the game, but it comes across as  simply silly during the first few easy questions that the TV show would  blast through in short order.
As others have pointed out, even the  keyboard commands have problems.  Assigning a lifeline to the same key as  an answer choice is begging for mistakes; and the lack of an "Is that  your final answer?" question in most cases further increases the  possibility of errors, as well as erasing the remainder of the feel of  being on the show.
The game does have its moments; if multiple people are  playing, a clever implementation of the fastest-finger round decides who  gets to sit in the hot seat.  But frankly, I can't imagine playing this as  a multi-player game anyway; the show's format simply isn't suited to be a  party game, and this home version simply isn't exciting enough to  watch.
In summary, the Millionaire computer game has its (brief) moments,  but simply isn't worth even the low price Disney is asking for it.  It's  unfortunate that Disney and Jellyvision chose to put their names--and the  show's reputation--on such a disappointing effort.Mortal Kombat dominated arcades and home consoles worldwide, but did it dominate handhelds? No. No it did not. The Game Gear version was fairly good, but the Game Boy port suffered from really slow gameplay, dull music, and no sound effects. The graphics were okay, but it didn't help keep the Game Boy version from getting a fatality.

This is possibly the worst Mortal Kombat game.As we all know the point of this game is to get the frog from point A to point B without getting killed by cars or water. The game has good graphics but there are some things I did not like. For example I didn't like the fact that on level three on the game it was impossible to avoid the super fast cars and throughout the whole game you are times. Anyway only if you love frogger get this game.I downloaded this from the Nintendo eShop, and I had played Mario Land 2 in the past, which was excellent, but this game is bad. I'm sure it's not the worst Mario game out there, but it's the worst one I've played. It's not a horrible game, but it's just not as good as its predecessors or its successors. The biggest complaint I have are the controls and the physics. It doesn't even feel like a Mario game. The controls are klunky and often unresponsive, the physics are weird, like the Fire Flower's Fireball. It ricochets everywhere before eventually going out. The enemies are unlike anything I've ever seen in Mario. In one world, you have to Easter Island Heads with arms and legs, kinda like Nosepass from Pokemon. The Koopas explode when you jump on them. I don't mean they explode and die, i mean, when you jump on them, they go into their shell, and explode like a Bob-Omb, hurting you if you're too close. The graphics, I can't give TOO much flack to because it IS gameboy, but it doesn't look much better than the Mario Calculator games I played back in highschool. I'd say skip this one, go straight to Mario 2. It's much MUCH better.This game falls short with so many other console fighting games. It has cool characters and stages,moves but not enough of these aspects to make the game shine. Thats exactly why I highly recommend the Sega CD game Eternal Champions:Challenge From The Darkside it has all the characters,moves,overkills that this 16 bit cart does and a whole lot more. In the Sega CD sequel the player has 4 brillant ways to end a match not just the one you get with the genesis game. The Sega CD version has overkills which is in this game ,but in addition has cinekills(a cinema scene where you brutally dispose of the opponent)Vendettas(where each character has a unique way to let out his/her revenge),and Sudden Deaths(another background finisher like overkills except they are harder to pull off and ends the round quicker)and tons of characters I believe 38-40 with not palette swaps like the ... Mortal Kombat series. BOTTOM LINE I GIVE ETERNAL CHAMPIONS CREDIT FOR BEING MADE TO SPAWN THE WONDERFUL SEGA CD GAME,WHICH I WOULD RECOMEND OVER THIS ANY DAY!I like the original Batman game for this system as oppose to this joke. The graphics are very good I will say that, but terrible gameplay. The fighting system in this game was different and it was more than just a rock'em sock'em still side scroller. I liked how each of the characters had a huge list of moves; and how you can use them in the dual mode. Despite this being a bad game overrall I remember myself and my brother loved playing this game back in the day. It was cool when I was a pre-teen but now its just one of those stale games.batman forever is Mortal kombat rebuilt for batman. they put MK's controls and suk random bat gizmo controls in it. i personally never beaten the game, but maby i just suck at it. that or i lost patiance with it because i can't get pat the first hole in the floor. do youself a favor and stay away from this pile of bat crap.If you think that this is a good game then you seriously need your head examined

I can honestly say I've yet to play a good Spider-Man game. For all the hype, good reviews and people willing to pay the big bucks over this one, I thought it was sure to be the best. How disappointed I was to discover it's one of the blandest and boring beat-em-ups ever.

You begin playing as Spidey (but can later change to Venom if you wish) and you go about tiresome duties beating up generic thugs on the streets of Manhattan. Every thug looks the same and you'll end up punching to death the same guy a billion times (more so for those infuriating end of level bosses). The crap music is the same on every level. Apparently the game has 'additional music' by some band called Green Jelly, who I have never heard of. I assume they must be some none-hit wonder grunge band from Seattle back when all that was new. And quite what exactly they contributed to the game is a mystery as there are only 2 tracks in total (level music and boss music).

There is some plot going on but I couldn't follow it. The comic-book cut -scenes look terrible and the writing is too small to read. Plus the are very slow and add too much time between the boring levels.

The controls and gameplay are dire. There's no fluent movement or grace in the fighting. It's all just an annoying mess and terribly programmed. If you can bear to stay with the game until level 2 you'll know what I mean. It was so rage-inducing I almost gritted my teeth into dust and chucked the controls into the TV.

Stay well away from this horrible game. As a beat-em-up it stinks. As a Spidey game it stinks. It just plain reeks overall.

Graphics C

Sound D

Gameplay D

Lasting Appeal FIf you're a true Bubsy fan, you would know immediately that the title of my review is actually a quote from the very first thing Bubsy says in his first game.  How prophetic.

Now, let me say that I loathe hyperbole.  Bubsy 3D is not the worst game ever made, and believe me, I have played most of them.  Despite what the fifteen-year-old reviewers on Amazon would have you believe, Bubsy 3D actually won some acclaim when it was released, and retained what was, for the time, the 3D platforming status quo.  The problem with the status quo back then was that there wasn't one, and any given game might have any old control scheme, many of which didn't make any sense.  Bubsy 3D suffered from exactly that, among other things; namely, the overly simplistic environments and the sketchy depth perception.

And oh yeah, it suffered from one more thing: Super Mario 64 had completely blown the lid off of everyone's expectations.  Suddenly, simply average platformers made only months before suddenly looked like clunky, outdated dinosaurs.

And there was left poor old Bubsy.  The controls for the game are clunky at best, that much is certain, and it takes a while to learn his ropes.  His jumping mechanics are very different; the developers solved the depth-perception problem (partially, anyway) by having the camera switch to an overhead view whenever he jumps, giving the player overly precise control over where he lands, a la Jumping Flash.  Unfortunately, he takes so long to get a running start, he will probably slide right off of that platform you just landed on so precisely.  In fact, you will get to know the jumping controls extremely well, because you are going to fall off of that platform quite a bit.

One thing that still surprises me to this day, though, is the sharpness of the game's resolution.  No, there aren't hardly any textures to be found, as Bubsy's 3D world consists of purely colored geometric shapes, but I'll be darned if there isn't hardly a jaggy edge to them.  The characters and their expressions, as well as their animations, are actually really well defined, and the 2D sprites fail to pixelate.  Its just too bad that they all live in a world created by the God of Playskool.

Bubsy 3D is not one of the worst games ever made.  It is simply one of the most unfortunate, a rushed product shoved to the front lines to catch as much residual success off of its competitors as it could.  To understand that, you had to have been there in 1996, when platformers were anybody's game.  When Mario grew up he changed all that, and invited us along for his joyous adventure, from which we never looked back.

Poor Bubsy.This game is horrid! The graphics and the framerate are too choppy! The sound's okay (sound effect wise), but MKII was never known for it's music. The control is absolutely horrid; there aren't enough buttons on the Game Boy and special moves are nearly impossible to pull off (much less FATALITIES, as there's only one per character).

But the worst of it all happens to be the gameplay. Seriously, I beat this game in half an hour! And when did blood ever become an ink error?

  Not worth the price. I suggest that you should dust off your Super NES and buy that version. Avoid Mortal Kombat II on the Game Boy at all costs.  The only thing worse than this is the Game Boy port of Mortal Kombat 3.In my opinion, the only thing this game has going for it is that it didn't have any competition in the field of RPGs until the Zelda action RPGs.  The developers of this game should be ashamed of themselves for creating this.  I bought the game a couple of years ago and it still sits there and collects dust.  I probably played it for four hours or so and put it away.  I want those four hours back that I wasted.  Nevermind, I would just waste them anyways.First off my rating is high because I really enjoyed this game.
2ndly it was a N64 RPG, which I don't remember there being many.

You end up using the elements as magic and you mix and match to kind of make your own play style.
The battle mechanics were odd, but I always enjoyed games that were challenging so you had to think out what you were going to do, sometimes you would lose a battle due to making a bad move, and you can learn from it and do better.

Unless your someone who likes to play old games, avoid this one, there are games which are all around upgrades.
Try Fate or Fable.Quest 64 is a Role Playing game that stresses 3d eye-candy, with little depth of story, plot, and no long lasting appeal (all three are essential, along with others, for a good rpg).
The main character only has one weapon and a few items which most of which repeat themselves in a pattern throughout the entire game.
There are no side quests or red herrings to keep you intrigued, no easter eggs.
The battle system first of all is the most boring turn based combat system ive ever seen.  Oh and youll spend 80 percent of the game running around the countryside fighting monsters to build your levels (thats all the game's empahsis is on, building levels) and thatll bore you after about a couple of hours, off and on.  The game's story seems to get loss in the building of levels after the first few hours or so.
The amazing 3d graphics are the only thing really good about this game, as its the only thing that really keeps it from getting one star.  But still graphics don't make up for a game with such a linear monotonous flow.
I recently re-read some of the previous Nintendo Powers reviews of this game hyping it up as being as good as Final Fantasy series....that was a selling/promotional point more than anything else, since as the first editorial writer above said, "Quest 64 sinks in too many areas: (to paraphrase him).
If you can find this game used at a exchange store for 5 dollars nowdays then I would buy it, thankfully I only rented it and the guide, rather than pay 50 bucks for this game when it first came out, you should do the same.This version of the trilogy absolutly stunk to high heaven. What the hell happend??? I first brought the MK Trilogy on PC. But after I upgraded to Windows 98 the game would not install anymore, it only worked on Win 95. So I saw the playstaion version, but I never liked the PS and I saw that it was exactly the same as the PC version.. so I figured the N64 version would be just the same.... wrong!!!! There is about 20 charactors missing from the 64 version for some unknown reason. They could well have included them but for some reason this game is more like Mortal Kombat 3 with a few extra charactors.

I hope the PC version gets re-released some day. Or maybe i'll just get a PS version Rom, because MK trilogy is the best MK game ever... just not on the 64.Well this game features some of the best graphics Ive ever seen and its easier to learn how to play than Rogue Leader but what were they thinking when they decided not to have a save option?N64 is a superior machine so its not like it doesnt have enough memory to support a save option and even old games like Metroid and The Legend Of Zelda let you save your progress with a password. This game is just like one of those arcade games at movie theatres because its fun to play for a while but pointless to try and beat it because it just doesnt let you save. The new Star Fox game for Game Cube sure as hell better have a save option.After I saw the movie I was in a real "X-Men" mood so I went out and bought this game. When I started playing it I became very frustrated. It doesn't show you how to do any of the moves in the instruction book (not that I ever need an instruction book to learn moves). To do moves in this game it takes a lot of practice. So to find out how to do anything with a character you have to go into this boring and frustrating training mode. Once you master a character it is then easy to complete the game. But then, if you want to play another character, you have to go back into the training mode all over again. The endings in this game are very short and unsatisfying. The good thing is that after you have beaten the game with everybody you can view each ending linked up together and then it makes a lot more sense and you get more satisfaction. There's lot of things to unlock in this game but no codes. No secret characters. The worse part about this game is the gameplay. I recently went back to play this game after not playing it for about a year. I found out that I had forgotten to do all of the moves. So rather than go back into training mode I just turned it off and put it anyway. I'll probably never play it again.I could only get to the first boss. Don't get me wrong I had fun with this game, but many factors killed it for me.

 Most noticebly is the controls. The controls in this game are aweful! You have no idea how many cheep deaths the controls caused me. Its the main reason why I could never get pass the first boss. This is an extreme problem when you're facing more than one enemy because the controls won't respond when you need them to. The camera doesn't make things any easier. When platforming the jumping controls and camera will often cause cheep deaths because you can't see where your going or jump at an angle that causes you to fall off.

 Another issue I had is that when you get a game over you start all the way to the beginning of the game. Extra lives are also hard to find. This wouldn't be so bad if the controls weren't so bad.

 The plus side though is that the music is wonderful and there are moments that are creepy AND SCARY. I would love it if they remade this for the Wii, Xbox, or PS3 with better controls and handling, but due to how long its been I don't see that happening.PROs:
Encourages exploration
Intense final battle against boss
Graphics state-of-the-art for its time

CONs:
Frustrating angles
Tedious and repetitive gameplay
Beaver Bother (you know what I'm talking about if you've played this game)

I had always heard how DK64 was such a classic, and so naturally I wanted to finally buy and beat it.

Instead of a classic, I found a game that was, well, kind of lazy. You essentially have 7 levels before the boss level, and you have to beat each of these levels with 5 different characters. So, you have to spend your time getting all of DK's bananas and missing the other 4 characters' bananas, because only Diddy can get Diddy bananas, only Tiny can get Tiny coins, etc. This means you have to basically go back and re-do the whole level with another character all over again.

Couple this with the fact that camera angles are constantly changing on you, it makes for a very ho-hum experience.

At one point during the 30 hours it took me to beat this game, I turned on the game and found all my data was erased. At first I was angry, but then kind of relieved that I didn't have to feel like I needed to finish this game anymore. That's saying a lot, because I always finish games I start. (I turned the game on-and-off again, and the data was there again, so I did finish playing it. But the point still stands: I WANTED my data to be erased.)When I think of the N64, I think about great games and memories. Games like Golden-Eye 64, The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time, Super Mario 64, and Banjo- Kazooie. Memories like getting my fore-head shot by my brother, grabbing my 120th power star, and meeting Princess Zelda for the first time.

Donkey Kong 64 doesn't come up in any of these if you haven't noticed by now, and for good reason. It's slow, pokey, and not really all that fun. Which is really a problem after the success of the Donkey Kong Country trilogy.

THE GRAPHICS: Donkey Kong 64 seems to take the graphics roll from Super Mario 64, in that the characters are a little on the blocky side, but their really not all bad. I've only come across a few complaints which is demonstrated in the following description: In one area, the room has a large wooden treasure chest with a switch of the character's face on it. Sounds fine right? Wrong, the switch attached to the chest is made from a vent in one of the previous areas. A metal switch attached to a wooden chest. Sheer laziness. VERDICT:*** 3/5

THE STORY: Quite simple really, Donkey's horde of bananas have been stolen once again by King K. Rool, ruler of the Kremling reptiles. He's also done the liberty of imprisoning all of the other Kongs in cells mapped around the game. The game introduces many new character like Lanky Kong and the banana fairies, along with some pretty whacked up levels. It's not really all that original, but it works.
THE VERDICT: *** 3/5

THE GAME-PLAY: This is where Donkey Kong 64 kills, and not in the good way. The game rips from the popular "grab the golden item to proceed to more levels" style originated by Super Mario 64 and Banjo-Kazooie. Now, that would be fine since the genre has pretty much held water for years, but DK64 has you "power-walking" your way through each task, some of which are dragged on already.

 It takes me about 7 minutes just trying to go to the level I choose (except the first level). The game is loaded with long hallways, ledges you need to slowly climb, and slow frame-rate issues at times. If Rare had upped the speed to about 2.33 times faster, I probably wouldn't have constantly been yelled at to leave my younger brother's room so he could sleep. Oh yeah, and I got a serious sore thumb from holding the joystick in the same direction. This game ruins hands, and sleepy little brothers. THE VERDICT: * 1/5

THE MUSIC: The game ranges from toy factories, jungles, pyramids and the like, so you can imagine a wide arrange of tunes to come across. Some of the music is pretty catchy, but I didn't find myself dazzled by any means. I found myself humming 2 or 3 songs, but that was it, none of which you'll be hearing very often. The sound-effects are fitting and pretty original. Thanks to this game every time I see an orange, I immediately think of the sound the orange grenades make in this game. Pretty funny right? VERDICT: *** 3/5

OVERALL: DK64 had a lot of hype, and it's a shame it didn't turn out since it was made by the same guys behind the Donkey Kong County, Battletoads, and Jet Force Gemini series, which were excellent gems. I played this game as a kid years ago and completed everything in the game, I really must have exaggerated greatly how fun it was back then, because I can't seem to have any courage to attempt getting everything in just level 4. While the music is descent, the graphics okay and the story shallowly good, none of those elements are what make you play a game. You play to have fun, to enjoy the universe of the characters, and to enhance you skills. I'd be able to accomplish all those things twice as much just eating a banana and watching my dad trim his nails than playing Donkey Kong 64.

 OOOOH BANANA.

OVERALL VERDICT: ** 2/5What a weird game.  I got this expecting the same type of thing that was going on in those great super nintendo games.  But hey, if you like confusing and weird puzzles than you might enjoy this game.  I suggest that you get it anyway but only to see how different it is than the dk country games.  This is a puzzle level game, not a dk country game.  I got bored and annoyed with it and stopped playing after having it for a few weeks.

These are my updated comments.  Recently, I challenged my review above and my view of this game.  I decided to learn how to get good at it, thus, leading to enjoyment of the game.  I actually got hooked, playing it for over 80 hours so far.  Point being, this game is not awful, it is, however, tricky.  If you enjoy Glover or even if you somehow found a way to enjoy Mario 64, you will like this game.  I would say that my new rating of fun would be 4 of 5 and my new overall would be 3 of 5.  The overall is still low because of how frustrating this game is.As a fan of the X-Com games and Shadow Watch, I was really looking forward to this game.  Based on the Editorial Reviews on this site, I was expecting somethiing in a similar vein.
Unfortunately, there are some subtle  problems with this game that make it vastly inferior to the previously  mentioned titles, and cause the game play to be rather slow and  frustrating.
Problems with the tactical level:
#1.  Extremely long  fights:  Most of the weapons in this game are frustratingly innacurate and  don't do much damage.  As a result, fights go on and on and on and on and  on and . . well, you get the idea.  In X-Com and Shadow Watch, fire fights  tend to be relatively quick and decisive.  If a bad guy steps out in front  of you without cover, he goes down.  In this game though, he can stand  right in front of you at a range of three or four spaces and it will still  take a few turns to kill him.  You shoot and miss, and shoot and miss and  so on.  And then when you finally do hit the guy, it takes five or six  shots to take him down. Your mouse hand will get sore from all the point  and clicking. Both the accuracy and the lethality of all the weapons in the  game should be about doubled or trippled, which would lead to shorter, more  decisive engagements. 2.  Computer controlled characters have a huge  advantage in accuracy:  This is a weird glitch that becomes really obvious  from about the second fight onwards.  All computer controlled units are  roughly two to three times as accurate as your (supposedly elite) mercenary  units.  What does this mean? A couple of examples: a.)  One of your  mercenaries (with a high accuracy rating) is lying on the ground, firing at  an opponent lying on the ground, with no intervening cover.  The computer  controlled character will hit you about four times for every time you hit  him. b. You have a unit which has carfully positioned itself crouching  behind a tree for cover, shooting at a computer unit standing in the open.  You will hit each other with about the same frequency.
While over all  game balance is preserved by the fact that your mercs can just take so damn  much damage, it still makes game play awefully frustrating.  Here you are,  knocking yourself out to find good covered positions to protect your guys,  and the computer still hits them easily, while you're missing its guys that  are out in the open. The problem becomes even more annoying once you start  training local militia to protect your villages.  Being computer  controlled, the local militia also benefit from this huge increase in  accuracy, which means that they completely outclass the mercenaries who  trained them.  Which makes you wonder why they needed your mercenaries to  come liberate them in the first place.
Problems with the Strategic  Level:
Unbalance Economy:  Simply put, the amount of money running around  in the game doesn't balance out against the cost of most items.  Local  Militia, for example, can be trained for $750, a sum so small by comparison  to what your mines are turning out that it doesn't even enter into your  strategic thinking.  Similarly, the rewards for completing quests in the  game are ludicrously small wnen compared to your income.  What do you say  to a major NPC who is trying to get you to do some major quest by offering  you 20K dollars.  "Hello, I make more than that in a single day of  mining.  Why should I bother?".  The numbers on a lot of this stuff  need to be adjusted. 2.  A preponderence of innefectual hand guns:  For  some reason, most of the mercs that you can afford at the start of the game  come equipped with hand guns rahter than assault rifles.  Excuse me?  A  professional merc who's going to airdrop into the middle of a civil war  with only a pistol?  This is particularly ludicrous when you realize how  innefectual handguns are in this game.  Even at close range, an NPC is  likely to die of old age long before you ever manage to finish him off with  a .38 revolver. Adding to this problem is the fact that you can't buy  rifles.  Oh sure, the nice mail order company that you do business with  will send you ammo, but not big guns, grenades, night vision goggles, or  any of the really cool stuff that you want to play with.  To get that  stuff, you have to ever so slowly find it off the bodies of dead enemies.  In the course of 15 hours of play, I managed to find only two rifles.  Unfortunately, they were of a calliber that I couldn't buy ammo for.  Arrg.  Why can't you just buy decent armaments in this game?
Overall, I would  have to encourage people to buy all the X-Com games and Shadow Watch before  buying this one.  And even then, I would replay the former titles again  before sending buying this one.  Firefights in Jagged Alliance are  needlessly long and indecisive, there is little variation between combat  locations and opponents, and there is a lot of built in frustration in the  fact that your units are so vastly inferior to those controlled by the  computer.  This is a game with a lot of subtle problems that should have  been caught in the beta testing....the actual game is okay but certainkly isn't on par with goldeneye. with the exception of the man dan carrington the characters are wooden and the story is very poor, you never feel into the game's story at all. the level design in general is bad, like the supposed 'stealth' mission in chicago where every enemy knows where you are anyway so there is no stealth involved whatsoever. some of the levels though are fun with inspired design like the sniping levcel in the snow but it doesnt make the game good.
what does make the game worth playing is the multi player modes, although the graphics take another turn for the worse they are acceptable in 2 player but with 4 you cant see anything at all without a massive tv. the multi modes make pd, beating the hell out of simulants in slow motion can be fun and sure beats the game. this is what you should be buying the game for, not for the story mode. the trouble with this is that the pd arenas are poor and its only the graphically altered goldeneye levels that are worth playing. a bit lazy on the developers part.
overall: except for the inclusion of mr. carrington the story mode is a bust so unless you have enough mates to make the multi worthwhile don't buy it.Nintendo has taken one of the greatest racing games for SNES and revamped it into a whole different futuristic racing game. For starters, there are 30 racers rather than 4, and this game is very fast! But to be so fast and have 30 racers, the game is very cheaply detailed. Lets just say the car your driving is very small and looks like a box with rocket boosters. Also with 30 cars 6 cars to start and 24 to earn, it gets a bit confusing as to who you should chose to race as, so there are detailed photos of each driver so that people can pick their favorite to drive as. The originality of the game is the fact that the track forms itself into any sort of shape. It goes into huge anti-gravity loops, half pipes where you can drive on the ceiling, and pipes where you can race on the outside of it... all around it... without falling off! There are three levels of difficulty, customizable colors, cars, speeds, acceleration and three circuits with seven or so unique tracks. Finally there is an original battle mode, where you must destroy other racers by knocking them off the track. This is a game you should rent before you buy.If you think a super hero game can never be too fast-pased, this could change your mind. Enemies come at you from every corner throughout the entire game, constantly trying to take you under. You'd swear you were in Detroit.
If you want a slower-paced game based on the animated series, try the SNES version. It doesn't let you play as Robin, but it has more depth and . . . wait a minute!! I'm not reviewing the SNES version!!!
As either Batman or Robin, you throw various weapons at your enemies as you keep scrolling to the right and trying not to get killed.To say the least, Donkey Kong took everything this genre stood for, and made a muck-up of it. Endless item collecting, muddy details and slow action leave this one for the chimps, uh, chumps.
You have bananas, golden and coloured, coins, coconuts, ammo, musical notes etc. and for five characters. The collecting seems endless, and when i was forty % done the game, i just stopped. I looked at this forest level and i said, this looks just like the desert and water ones, only with a different backdrop.
And what's with the story? Some giant floating island or something? Why does K Rool have such a loathing for the Kongs? WHy doesn't he just butcher them instead of placing them in unguarded, easily escapable places???? Rare really messed up on this one. The sound isn't all that awesome (the DK rap, what the heck was that?), and the graphics were bleh; this thing required the 4mb expansion? Banjo Kazooie looked twice as good.
Even the characters are lame. I thought the release of Kiddy Kong in DKC3 was dumb, but now we have three new characters that couldve easily been replaced by 2 old ones. Tiny is the spitting image of Dixie, and Lanky is the babyish side of Kiddy while Chunky is, well the chunky side.
I think Rare thought their game was weak themselves, that must be why they added this mediocre 3rd person shooter multiplayer, isn't it? They didn't think they did a good job on the shooter part did they?
I have so many peeves about this game, it's nuts. What difference is tehre between the gun and the instrument??? They both unlock things. Why did Rare feel it necessary to have two things that can work switches??
Honestly, the only entertaining and redeeming part of this game are the Jetpac and Donkey Kong hidden arcade games.
Certainly a long game, but length is not always a good thing. Look at Conker's BFD, it was short, and still owned this game wicked bad. 15 hours of this, and you'll wish Rare had stopped there.I was extremely disappointed with this title.  You will like it if you like Goldeneye, but definitely go with Goldeneye over this game.  The multiplayer is 50 times better than Goldeneye, but the cheats and single player levels leave EVERYTHING to be desired.  For one thing, it requires more sneaking around because one missed shot hits the wall letting the guards know of your presence who will then hit you with perfect accuracy and kill you in a matter of seconds because of your quickly draining life meter.  You also run out of bullets faster and reload much slower.  The difficulty is just about near impossible.  If you can't beat Goldeneye with EVERYTHING as in cheats, bonus levels, record times, etc, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME.  You can't beat this game on Perfect Agent unless you're a game tester, and I'm sure even they had problems.  The game is so hard it just totally degrades from the fun factor.  The plot is also absurd.  Aliens and such.  Ha Ha.  Amusing.  DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY!  I strongly reccomend going for Goldeneye rather than Perfect Dark.Here comes the (one-time) end of an era.  And sadly, it ends not with a bang, but with a whimper.  Like MM7 before it, Mega Man 8 suffered quite a bit of backlash, and this time around it was a result of the rather unbecoming 16-bit-ish graphical structures on the 32-bit wonders of the Sega Saturn and Sony Playstation, and, if you ask me, it was not the title to follow the monstrous Mega Man X4 that came out around the same time.  Still, for all the weeping against statues, MM8 still serves up some classic Mega Man fun with that new-school Mega Man X feel.  The searching for hidden items becomes more important and challenging this time around, the action is still consistently hectic, and the level designs are pretty nicely done with some rich and vivid color work.  However, there's a very cheesy, sugar-coated appeal to this, even more so than MM7 (which, I think, was trying to emulate the American animated series); that and the bosses and weapons don't seem as good as they could have been, Rush's abilities aren't as important as they used to be, and the voice acting is atrocious for certain characters (Dr. Light, Bass, and some of the bosses are the prime sinners in this regard...and Rush Shiraishi did a better job voicing X in X4 than she did Mega Man in this.  It fits better, if you ask me).  Still, there's enjoyment to be had.  Just remember to take it at face value...and consider it a stepping stone to Mega Man 9.This could be considered the companion to Alien Trilogy as it takes place in the Fourth Movie following the first three presented in Alien Trilogy.  This game featured controls that people are more familiar with in these days, but didn't understand at the time.  The controls may be above average, and the graphics are excellent for the time, but seriously, the level design is a piece of crap!  What kind of space ship is this?  Very illogical design leads to BORING gameplay that is only fun for 5 minutes with invincibility turned on, otherwise you'll die in 2 minutes without it because you move soo slow.  An interesting thing is that if you get impregnated by a facehugger you won't be allowed to go through airlocks or elevators, which is interesting that they followed through on this principal with the chestbursters, and you'll have to find a device to take out the creature before the time runs out.  The thing that doesn't make sense with this is that even with a chestburster inside you, aliens will attack you, and that makes no sense.  Facehuggers can also attack you by hitting you with their tails.  Don't play this game, I'd rather watch the movie.Alien Ressurection the game, makes the movie of the same title look like an Oscar winning masterpiece (well, ok maybe not).  The only reason it got two stars was for the awesome atmosphere and graphics that this game has to offer plus the level of geniune fear and suspense that it conjurs up.
Now for the bad...nothing ever really happens in this game.  At times, it is downright BORING.  You wander around in the pitch black half the time waiting for something really bad to happen...but it never does.  When I say this game is dark, I mean dark as in no light.  You can't see half the time and the worthless flashlight that you have runs out of batteries every five minutes.  The controls are sloppy and unnecessarily difficult.  The weapons/ammo are limited and you really have to search for them in some of the later levels which makes the game seem contrived, like they added that feature only to make the game longer.  Alien Trilogy was a much better game.  Like the Alien movies, too many sequels makes for a predictable and downright boring ride.this game was okay not one of the best fighting games i've played but it was okay. the characters are hard to controll and it's hard to make them do thier specail moves. but it's okay for a try i wouldn't buy it.When Yoshi's Story came out, I was stoked thinking it was a 64-bit sequel to Yoshi's Island. I was SO WRONG. This game is aimed at 5-10 year old gamers. You go around "Chapters" collecting fruit in the levels to advance, thus levels have no actual exit. There's 4 areas in each chapter. 6 chapters calls for 24 total levels in the game. To make this game even more disappointing, when you finish one level (say 1-1), you'd think you go to 1-2, but no. Instead you go to Chapter 2. What the heck?! It turns out you have to find red hearts hidden in each level to unlock a level in the next chapter. To unlock all of Chapter 1's level you have to complete one level, die, then go back. It's a stupid setup. I was really hoping for a Yoshi's Island 2 type game here but this is Nintendo cashing in on their child fanbase. Basically, if you're older than 10, this game will be too childish for your liking.This is a superb shooting game with lots of realism and strategy incoprorated. Graphics are great as is choice of team-mates and weaponary. I guess that it pretty realstic in a lot of ways as your team mates get in your way, and the terrorists are not as stupid as they are on some other games - they will shoot at you as soon as they see you. But there are times when you shoot at a terrorist and he doesn't die but shoots you instead. It seems to be a problem with the game. There are lots or really weird glitches too. You see dead terrorists levitating and half of them stuck through walls and their legs hanging down through the roof etc. I find it irritating that the designers take so much care to make tyres go down when you shoot them, and different sounds when you shoot a bed or a window, but then so little detail is given to other aspects such as the lights which don't go out if you shoot them. I have never seen lights like that. "Goldeneye" has lights that pop so why doesn't this? A lot of this game is just too difficult to win at. In addition, you get a mission such as the one at the datcha where you must avoid detection -  this is really difficult. The idea is to plant a bug and a camera and leave as though you've never even been there. You can go round and shoot al the windows out and still complete the level...and no one will notice that there are windows missing, glass everywhere and bullet holes in the walls? My point is, if you are going to go for realism then go all the way, or not at all. My low rating for this game is due to the problems I have had playing it on the PC. I think it's a game with really great potential, but you end up waiting all the time while the computer makes grinding sounds which freeze your action, but while you are frozen it really impedes playability and you end up getting shot because you can't react. Unplayable due to this, and I have a powerful computer, so that's not the problem. This is overambitious for the PC market, and there are things that need rethinking to make it a better game.I remember playing this game a few times with my friend. And then I asked him why did he get it....over and over. Batman Forever is based on the so so movie of the same name and as licensed games go, developers rush it out the door as soon as possible to make money. So that's one of the many reasons why this game wasn't so great.

As some of the other reviewers have stated, this game used digitized graphics and controls made popular by Mortal Kombat at the time. So, it looks great for a SNES game and uses the Batman license. Unfortunately, everything else about the game sucked. Batman and Robin both move around like either tanks or robots. Basic things like walking and jumping are a chore to do. They each have special moves, which are set up like moves you perform in fighting games, except they rarely work. The enemies were super hard to beat and it seems every couple of minutes you see a loading screen (you should NEVER wait for a game to load if it's on a cartridge!) Add in the lack of save features or continues and you got a hard game that wasn't meant to be played or beaten.

Stay away from this crap even if you are tempted to buy it. It isn't worth it and it turned out to be WORSE than the bad movie it was based on.The digitized actors give the game an interesting visual style, and the levels/backgrounds bear a decent resemblance to certain sections of the movie. As someone who's played a lot of Mortal Kombat I thought the controls were decent, but I can understand how frustrating gadget usage must be if you aren't used to inputting 'special move' commands all the time.

Really, the game just gets boring and repetitive after awhile. There's not a lot to do except beat up thugs, and the 'loading' that takes place between each room kills the momentum and gameplay flow. A lack of continues or save feature keeps you from wanting to jump back in when you die. And beyond the graphics in the levels, presentation is downright bad with bland elevator music and a weird batcomputer display that tries to move the narrative along. Plus what kind of game do you have when the manual doesn't even list how to jump down between floors in a room??

2-player co-op does make the game a bit better, until you either get stuck or get bored. Overall, another dud Batman licensed game.Batman Forever is a perplexing experience all on its own.  The original film, released in 1995 is one of the more divisive films in the entire franchise (it's neither universally loved nor universally hated).  Being a bit more kid friendly, light hearted and trying to be fun.  It's surprising then, that the video game doesn't even try to be fun or entertaining.  Batman Forever is a boring and monotonous game that came out in a time when creating video games based off movies were not always good... but they weren't exactly bad.  As a film Batman Forever is probably an okay outing.  As a video game it's a great cure for insomnia and a good lesson on how not to create a game.

I should note that Batman Forever was available on several different platforms.  The Super Nintendo version might've been slightly better than the Sega Genesis one, but merely because of the controls not necessarily because one console was better than the other.  Let's start with the basics though.  The game is based off the movie and divided into eight levels.  Before each level you get to choose two gadgets to take into each stage.  Batman has a good arsenal of tools.  You have the Bat Bola which can render enemies temporarily immobile, smoke grenades or even a device that makes you invincible so long as you're using it correctly.  Players don't just have to play as Batman either.  One can also play as Robin.  While Batman uses exclusively his fisticuffs, Robin actually has a staff he can use as well.  The two also sometimes get different gadgets they can choose from.  While Batman as pellets and grenades, for instance, Robin has a blinding light, tranquilizer darts and wrist rivets to stop enemies in their tracks.  There are also default gadgets the two have on them all the time such as the Batarang.

It may seem like Batman and Robin would play radically different, but they actually don't.  Each one of them has a set of universal tools.  Not just the batarang, but also a grappling hook to reach other layers of stages, tiny bombs to find hidden passages in the floors (and to deal damage to enemies etc.) and the same basic attacks.  Despite Robin having a staff it doesn't operate any different than Batman's fist.  The game won't be significantly easier if you use one character over another.  You might think their gadgets where they differ make a huge difference but the gadgets the game is made to favor are shared by both of them.  It might seem great to try to decide whether you should use Batman's slippery goo or Robin's Sticky goo but both tools are so horrible you'd never actually use them to begin with.  Both have the preferred Bat Bola and respective gadgets that will make them invincible when the gadget is active.  You won't find any significant difference in the characters.

Each level has lots of things to find.  There are items to pick up, enemies to vanquish and secret passages to find.  Some levels also have hidden blue prints and if you find them all you'll unlock hidden gadgets the two can use.  As with many of the gadgets, though, they're not really anything special.

The game has you traverse each of these stages, room-by-room, beating up the enemies, uncovering secrets and finding a goal.  The goal of each level isn't always specified.  While there is a small briefing before hand, most levels end once you finally get to the end and have dispatched all enemies.  Some stages have actual bosses to defeat such as Two-Face or The Riddler, but they're usually just glorified henchmen.  Most rooms just have you fight through thugs, each with a life gauge of their own.  Once it's depleted they're dead.  It's a typical beat-em up but without the usual elements that create a good beat' em up.  This isn't like Final Fight or Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles IV: Turtles in Time.  The levels aren't short and snappy, there is nothing pressing you forward and you're on a single plain in a side scroller.  At first this is perfectly fine, but then the game begins to get really boring really fast.  Once you've played the first ten minutes or so of Batman Forever, you pretty much know everything you need to know about the game.  You walk into a room, beat up some bad guys and walk to the next room.  There aren't a lot of variations to it or specific goals you need find.  It's just you as Batman or Robin walking through a room and beating up people.  There are occasionally platforming moments, but they're frustrating thanks to the strange jumping mechanic that's made for combat and not platforming.

All of this brings together a game that's surprisingly boring to play.  The levels are lengthy but they aren't engaging.  Were it actually a traditional side scrolling beat 'em up it might've actually been okay, but instead it's a game where you go room by room.  But doing this isn't even all that great in and of itself as each time you enter a room you have to wait for the game to load each area.  For large stages with several rooms such as the first level of the game where enemies can knock you back into a previous room... this is going to get annoying.  The game even flashes the words "Hold on," each time you go to another area.  The music also isn't adding anything to this either.  It's kind of boring and repetitive... but it also doesn't really pump you up or make you feel like Batman.  Take, for example, how the SNES version of "The Adventures of Batman and Robin."  Everything about that game reminds you of the animated television show it's based on.  Here you've got nothing that reminds you you're playing a Batman game.

The game also doesn't play well.  There are far too many things to do and not enough buttons, even on the Super Nintendo, to compensate.  Your grappling hook, for instance is mapped to the "Select" button and if you want to shoot it straight up you need to press "Select+Up."  The end result is that if you don't press them both exactly at the right time you end up just shooting your grappling hook to swing normally (a moment that is only actually needed ONCE in the entire game).  This sounds pretty bad as it is, but it's a nightmare when using gadgets.  The game itself makes you use gadgets the way you use moves in Street Fighter II.  This works for Street Fighter because it's a fighting game.  Here's it's awful.  When beset upon by several enemies at once it can be annoying to enter the specific commands for your gadget.  It also doesn't help that sometimes the controls aren't responsive to the inputs.

It doesn't matter anyway, you don't need you gadgets to take down enemies anyway.  The only time it's useful to have even one (the Bat-Bola) is when taking on Two-Face who is surprisingly the only enemy that's difficult to defeat otherwise.  Aside from that, the game isn't challenging at all, it's just repetitive.  From stage 2 and further along you'll mostly run into the same enemies over and over all capable of doing very similar things.  Sure you'll come across a Riddler Thug eventually or you'll fight clowns in the circus stage but none of these enemies have much of anything that separates them from the enemies you're already facing.  There's nothing unique, nothing that's visually striking.  Two Face is likely the only enemy that seems to actually be different from the onsalught of other thugs you'll face.  Even the Riddler (who is the game's final boss, by the way) fights almost exactly like the basic enemies you'll face getting to him.

Are there good points to Batman Forever?  Sure, but even they come with an asterisk.  For instance, the game has some decent animations and is actually quite visually appealing.  But the levels themselves are repetitive, utilizing the same backgrounds and designs constantly.  The game looks good I just wish there were more of it to look at.  The level design also isn't enough to actually distract you from the same constant backgrounds appearing constantly.  It also takes just a little too long to explore every nook and cranny of the game.  Each level grades you on whether you could find all the secrets in a stage or defeated all the enemies and the like.  Completing these tasks rewards you with extra lives but the game is so simple you won't need them... and these tasks needlessly pad out the game to a length it simply doesn't need to be.  There are no greater rewards for doing so.  All it does is prolong what will already feel like a long experience.

The game also doesn't have a bad soundtrack either.  It's surprisingly good.  The opening title theme and the music that plays in the stages is actually good.  It just sounds slightly (not always but slightly) out of place for a Batman game.  But for the most part it's good.  I even found myself humming some tunes.

Batman Forever is a game that's close to being good.  But the repetitive nature of its combat and the fact that you've seen and experienced everything there is experience with the first level alone makes it less fun to play than other games.  It's a pretty boring game that, for those who have time, can use it to kill two hours, but it's going to feel like it's far longer than two hours to complete.  Visuals and music aside, there's nothing that special about Batman Forever that's going to keep you coming back to it time and time again.Diddy Kong Racing, simply put, is a game I have tried to love, and simply cannot do it.  I have even tried to play it, but I cannot simply stand playing this insipid game.  I do now know why, but this simply is not a good game.  Perhaps it is particular tastes.  But I simply cannot stand this game.  The tracts are fairly imaginative.  One grating thing about it is say you hit a tree.  Well, instead of bouncing off like on many other racing games, you stay bashing into the tree.  It does have some interesting features, however.  The sheer volume of tracts (had it been any other game would have been a plus) shows ingenuity, the story line is interesting, but in execution the game just flails horribly.
Why do I give it 2 stars?  The concept.  I love the concept.  Making an adventure out of a racing game, and the format they gave it is an excellent idea.  The sheer number of tracks is exhilarating.  And on some courses there are THREE (plane, hovercraft, kart) types of vehicles to use.  It is just a tragedy that in practice it doesn't come off at all.  It is nowhere near Super Mario Kart 64.  That game is fast-paced and loads of fun, the best racer to hit the N64.  Size wise, this dwarves Mario Kart 64.  If they could have had the execution on Mario Kart 64 and the concept of Diddy Kong Racing, we would have had one hell of a game.  Sadly, such a game does not exist (yet).  We have to settle with a badly executed game (Diddy Kong Racing) with another racing game that is superb in all manner of ways.  But, with a little engineering, we could have the best of both worlds.  Super Mario Kart 64 is the way to go, folks.  The multiplayer battle is really fun too, especially Block Fort.  Superiour in concept, inferiour in execution.  That's the bottom line.I reviewed this game a while back on the Genesis, and yeah its not one of the better Batman games that's 4 sure! With a few minor differences in sound and landscape design of the levels this game is almost identical to the Genesis version, and that being said your in for a lot of headaches.

The set up of this game is very unique. The gameplay mechanics resemble something from Mortal Kombat or other fighting games, but its actually a walkthrough/beat-em up style action game though. You can choose as Batman or Robin, and of course with the option of having a 2 player mode as well. Like the Genesis version they use real live digitized footage of actors for the sprites in the game so it looks pretty good overall. That is also where a lot of the pros end on this game, the rest are cons!

First off its extremely hard not just because of the constant barrage of enemies you face but the controls I think may have been designed by a programmer with a really bad sense of humor! The characters do not respond and sometimes feel glitchy and too perform the easiest of moves it takes a very odd button combination. So fighting the constant flow of enemies is super annoying and frustrating! And also the SNES is known for having great soundtracks and sound quality in its games, not here, there are literally 2 tracks through out the game! 0_o

The Adventures of Batman and Robin on The Sega Genesis is a great Batman game, and its port on the SNES isn't too shabby either, check out one of them but avoid this one!When it first came out, the graphics for this game were state-of-the-art. Now they are not good. The gameplay is very forgetable as well, it plays like a futuristic Tomb Raider with lousy puzzles.
The only possible reason to buy this game is that the voice of Blasto is done by the great Phil Hartman.Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire was released near the end of 1996 and was one of the first generation games for the N64. It's a decent Star Wars game overall with nagging issues that keep it from being one of the better games for the system.

Set after the events in the movie Star Wars V: The Empire Strikes Back but before the events in the movie Star Wars VI: Return of the Jedi (and also based on the book of the same name), you set out to help Luke Skywalker and rescue Princess Leia from the hands of Prince Xizor. Choose from 3 difficulty levels and battle through 9 levels set in planets that are part of the Star Wars universe; battling enemies and making your way around as you would in a platform game.

The PROS: Well, the overall presentation is good enough to make you feel you're in the Star Wars universe as the sound effects and music are what you expect to hear in Star Wars games. Even though the game has 9 levels, they are long levels so you won't be cruising through so easily.

The CONS: Unfortunately, this is not one of the better SW games available for the N64 for several reasons. This game was part of the first generation of games for the N64 and it shows. The graphics did not age so well and back in 1996 , they were horrible. Super Mario 64 was a launch title and it had way better graphics. Here, the game gets choppy when there's a lot of action, the frame rate dips every so often and there is lots of "pop up" scenery and dense fog (to cover up areas that don't have any animation.) The controls are no better than the ones in the PS title "Tomb Raider". Your character controls like a robot, aiming is a chore to do and the game has horrible collision detection. Add in the platform elements where you have to jump in certain areas and either you end up dying or trying to jump again because the jump button doesn't respond until a full second AFTER you press it. On top of all that, the game's difficulty is pretty unforgiving. Even if you set in on "easy", the enemies are still pretty tough and sometimes you have no idea if your weapons have an effect on whoever you are shooting at.

Considering that the first level is easily the best of the game altogether, you're pretty much hyped and can't wait to see the rest of the game. Unfortunately, when you do, you realize that the game falls flat on its face. Star Wars: SotE had a lot of potential. It's a Star Wars game and gives you the feeling that you're part of the awesome story it conveys. But that feeling goes away fast as the crappy graphics, robot like controls, bad platform elements and near impossible difficulty that this game presents keeps it from being the kind of game it could have been. Only the die hard Star Wars fans would pick this up. For everyone else, be warned as other Star Wars games released for the N64 are much, much better than this somewhat playable effort.For the past few months I'd been picking up old N64 games that I didn't get a chance to purchase during their initial release, and when I saw Shadows of the Empire I immediately grabbed it, being the big Star Wars fan that I am.
Shadows was one of the launch games for the N64, and while it might have been a decent game in its day, maybe even a good game (I can't, however, believe it was ever considered a great game), it hasn't aged well at all. To compare, I also recently grabbed Super Mario 64, the original launch game, and still found plenty of charm left in that old cartridge.
The graphics are a mixed bag. Our hero, Dash, is rendered rather nicely, with more polygons than one might expect. The levels, however, have ugly textures that will remind the player of early pseudo 3-D games like DOOM and Dark Forces. Hardly the graphical quality the N64 is capable of. Enemies such as the Stormtroopers and mercenaries are fuzzy with blurred details. However, the graphics on the flying missions and the speeder bike level are exceptional. With regards to sound, John Williams score has never failed before, and fortunately, the music combined with classic Star Wars sound effects is just what Star Wars fans want.
Where the game really fails is the gameplay. Shadows tries to include many different modes of play, and not all of them work. The snow speeder level is a classic, as it inspired the game Rogue Squadron; the speeder bike chase is rather cool, as is the fight with Boba Fett. However, in other areas of the game, your craft is stationary and all you are required to do is shoot. It's not much different from the Super Nintendo Star Wars games, and the simplistic gameplay can only entertain for so long. Then there is the first-person levels, which unfortunately make up the bulk of the game. Though the game has multiple view modes, Dash is easiest to control in the first-person mode, but the player won't even see the tip of Dash's gun, as is customary with all shooters. There is no target reticle, making aiming irratic. The levels are too big and empty, and are too straightforward. It's a simple matter to walk from point A to point B, with few surprises. You'll find yourself rushing through most of the game to get to the better levels, but unfortunately they're few and far in between.
If you're a Star Wars fan, there's still enough here to warrant a purchase, but mostly it'll be for a piece of N64 Star Wars history. While I might have had different feelings about this game had I bought it at launch, I can't imagine feelings much more impressed by it. Shadows of the Empire is the most disappointing of all the N64 Star Wars games.And that's being generous. I've never played a more lifeless, dull RPG.  The dialogue comes off as if it was written by an autistic elementary schooler. I understand the sequel is supposed to be much better, but... I'm  afraid I've been scared off for good.Spider-Man has been in a lot of games in his career, from his first adventure on the Atari to the recent game for the Playstation. Between the two, this Genesis game came out and it didn't exactly set the gaming world on fire. What you're looking at here is a very average game that doesn't do our friend Spidey justice. The gameplay is just too bland and repetitive for it to be fun. While it does have plenty of his best villians, it doesn't make it any more enjoyable. Graphics are good, sound is okay, but there are better games out there. Sadly, the Playstation Spider-Man game has been the only game to truly capture what Spidey's all about. If you have a Playstation, pick that one up. But for you Genesis owners, you're out of luck.this game was really boring, and was not what I was expecting for a Nintendo game, I would not buy this game for my kids again..This game has great graphics, an excellent 16-bit redo of the original soundtrack, and an overall awesome game. But after the famous title sequence ended and the game started, I was left in frustration. Level one put me against thousands of dinosaurs, scorpions, and worms. After 30 unsuccessful minutes, I used the flawed Game Genie ram editor to give myself invincibility, and level 1 became a snap. Level two started. I was put in mode 7 with a land speeder, not good considering the age of the game. The clunky land speeder vehicle could hardly aim at the Jawas, and once I shot all 10 of them I zoomed towards the sand crawler. Level 3 begins. It was an awful platformer with enemies that knock you back to the ground. Luke can't even jump high enough to reach half the platforms. Even with the Genie granting my wishes, it was still an impossible mess!!!IT WORKS , BUT IS VERY VERY DAMAGE .SO I GIVE 1 STAR. I WILL PREFER GETTING A CLEAN ONE SO THE COVER WILL LAST . IT WOULD BE BETTER IDEA JUST TO PAY FOR A NEW GAME. I DONT KNOW IF THE SELLER WILL READ THIS. HOPE HE DOES.When Mortal Kombat 1 was released on the arcades nearly a decade ago, it immediately became a HUGE hit. It was so realistic, and the hand-to-hand combat style was so extreme. The game also centered around controversy due to the incredibly unique violent content. Fans anxiously awaited for the game's arrival on home video game consoles. When it was released to the Super Nintendo, fans wasted no time purchasing it. However, the happy fans were quickly disappointed when they discovered Mortal Kombat to be edited. Thanks to Acclaim and Nintendo, this game has NO blood & guts! The fatalities are edited and toned down. The blood has been changed to sweat. MK fans were ripped off and very angry about the censorship in the game. At least the Sega Genesis version of MK had a blood code. The Super Nintendo version plays a lot like the arcade hit. The graphics, sound, music, and animation play equivelant to the arcade. But without the bloody violence and original fatalities, it's just not the same. This is still an okay fighting game though, which is why I gave it two stars instead of one. Too bad it's so old. I could do without it. MK II and MK III are a heck of a lot better. Don't waste your money on this. Rent it if you can.Mortal Kombat was really weak on the SNES because it was so censored. No blood, some people had different fatalities (ex: Johnny Cage's foot in your stomach). Blood was traded for sweat (?!?!) and because of those 2 reasons, the game was truly brought down a notch.
Yes it's still a classic but it's not worth it on SNES. You're better off getting it on the SEGA system because that way you could overcome the censorship and at least put in a "blood code".
Personally, I'd skip this one anyday and go straight to MK II because that was just all out better than MK and it was a lot more enjoyable, had better replay and a lot more characters. Trust me, skip MK on SNES and go straight for MK II on SNES.Don't get me wrong, its an ok game, its kinda fun, at the same time I don't see why this game is so amazing. The music is suppose to be good, I thought it didn't do the SNES sound chip any justice. Gameplay is quite repetitive, I know a lot of games can be repetitive but its a repition that bores me. Your constantly locating stuff, that got boring. But I will say, if I was bored or just killing time before I go out it would be good for a few rounds to play. The story line is pretty impressive, so I guess the game deserves props in that area. The game is good in its own little ways, but I just don't rank it up there with some of the other classics. I have some friends that love this game, so I guess I respect it for what it is.This game plays ok, but Nintendo caved to media pressure and edited most of the best content out of the game.  This game feels neutered.  It is like buying a music album you really like from a great artist only to find out you bought the radio edit version instead of the explicit version.  Granted a lot of games that were ported from an arcade console to the SNES system had to be altered to fit the parameters of the system, but this game could have left in the gore and everything else.  This is one of those rare times where Sega got it right and Nintendo goofed it up.  One of my favorite parts of the game was playing against other people and ripping off their heads at the end of a battle.  None of that in this version.  I feel like it should have a Care Bears sticker on it or something to let  buyers know this is the G rated version.

There is still some slow lag issues in the game and some bugs here and there.  The play control has some issues it does not seem fluid.  I would stick to only playing this game in the arcade for the true overall experience, that way you can see why everyone enjoyed it so much.  The endurance rounds provide a nice challenge that would be the only thing this game does better than MK2.  Other than that the sequel was superior in every way.  Seeing the classic characters is nostalgic and brings back a lot of memories.I never got into the hype of Mortal Kombat when it came out in arcades; it was good on arcade while the game lasted and then shipped to SEGA and SNES. Playing it on SNES was pretty boring for me for three reasons. One was the lack of blood. It was probably the most interesting feature of the arcade game. Two was the controller problem. I could never get a lot of moves done the way I asked for. Three was the sheer boredom of it. The game is very one dimensional for me. There is not much to do except memorize the combo moves for each player and then the fatality move. After them, there is nothing else anymore. The tournament is interesting, but once the ladder is climbed to the top, that's it. There isn't much to be said. All in all, Mortal Kombat doesn't cut it for me.Because you need something like that to make this game interesting and enjoyable; because its that bad!!!!!!!!!!

Seriously this game sucks, the graphics were great for the 16-BIT, the sound isn't all that bad, and that's were it stops. The gameplay is full of glitches and other issues. There is no blood, though you'll see a lot of sweat, maybe some tears, but no blood. You can't leave that out of the deal, also the game was just censored to death. The combination of the bad gameplay, and lack of originality that should have come from the arcades killed this version! I remember you could trip someone half way across the screen!? ;( Its just a dumb game.

If you wanna make it good like I said in the begining get some beer and other things, possibly get drunk, and then maybe you might find it entertaining. Other than that avoid this one, but check out the sequel.I missed the original Mortal Kombat in arcades, and was introduced to the series through word-of-mouth about how violent the title was. Really if this was the only version I'd played, I would've never gussed what all the hype was about.

Graphics and audio are pretty good, far surpassing what the Genesis version was offering and staying pretty true to the arcade version. Gameplay however, is a failure. Nevermind that the fatalities have been changed and the blood turned to sweat - the actual fighting is stiff and unresponsive, and it feels like the fighters have their feet glued to the floor. The only move that works well here is Scorpion's spear, and it's so smooth in its execution that it becomes the best way of landing cheap hits.

Look at MK objectively: bad controls, less characters than Street Fighter, less moves, a limited number of environments with no background animation (though the Pit idea was rather cool). The first installment was truly one that sold based on the strength of its gore, and on the SNES we're deprived of that as well.

MK fans might or might not want this version for completion purposes (since it looks graphically like the arcade but removes all the violent content). Everyone else should jump to MKII, which really got the series started.Initially "Saga Frontier" is quite interesting, but unfortunately it quickly bogs down from there.  The game offers seven different characters in seven different stories (some of which are actually quite interesting); this is a very neat idea, but the action gets repetitive after exploring the same area in different stories.  The fight action is interesting at first, but this too gets repetitive in a rather short time.  One thing I did like was the backgrounds; some of them were just beautifully rendered.  Unfortunately the character/monster graphics just did not fit in with the background; they were two different styles that just did not mesh well with each other.  If the game had offered a better combat engine and more unique areas for each character, "Saga Frontier" would have been a pretty good game.This game has no sense of linearity to it at all... You spend most of the game trying to figure out where to go next, and mostly being wrong. I can't even really say this game was remotely fun to play. In fact, the only reason I kept playing was because I was hoping to find some kind of story hidden in this madness... but I didn't.
The game boasts seven different main characters, all with their own backgrounds and skills. You can play the game as any one of them, while meeting the rest along the way. The problem is that all the intertwining story-lines get so crosswired that after a while you don't remember who's character you are really playing, and what your original goal was.
In the same respect, the game is huge. Once you get past a certain stage, the entire world is left before you, and you can go where you want, and do what you want, without having to stay within the confines of your particular storyline. Some people may like this freedom, but I found it annoying! I love the idea of being able to explore the world on my own, but I never had a sense of purpose throughout the game. I never really knew where to go next, and every time I went to a new city I just felt like I was going around in circles and not making any progress.
Needless to say, I haven't completed this game, and I don't plan on it anytime soon. This game is just bad! If you want to wander aimlessly around a series of cartoony cities, each with hidden dungeons and shops and no sense of purpose whatsoever, then by all means get this game. I for one would rather spend my money on a nice root canal, or perhaps a spinal tap.They should've made this game like the 2 before it. They just made it too complex and un donkey kong ya know what i mean?
Its ok at first, but it gets boring too fast.
( at least it's not nearly as bad as DK64 )This is one of the most overrated games of the Mario series. First of all, it's extremely difficult and frustrating. There's always been a problem with Mario games concerning the controls, they're slippery and not responsive enough for the difficulty of the game. Also the fact that the only attack Mario can do is jump on his enemies, at least in this game which isn't enough arsenal for the amount of enemies that are set against you at one time (armies of them). I know people who have been stuck on the same level for years and it makes me wonder why people bother with this game.

Another dire problem is the process of saving your game. The game only lets you save at designated points instead of saving at the completion of each level which again makes this game seem frustrating when you complete a substantial amount of the game and suddenly die and get sent back five to eight levels for losing all your lives.

I would've given the game 2 stars for the graphics alone which look somewhat advanced for 1991 but there are so many games from the 16 bit era that surpassed it that I'm going to ignore the graphics in this review because they simply don't make up for its lack of detail and intuitiveness in everything else. In comparison to Donkey Kong Country and Sonic The Hedgehog 3 this game is dwarfed for its graphics. Another reason to overlook the graphics is the blending of levels in which the same type of level looks nearly identical to every level of its kind.

And let's not forget the overrated soundtrack. The music is dull, repetitive, and juvenile and not in good way. It's not uncommon to hear the same music being played for three or more consecutive levels which is  ridiculous because they didn't even do this on the NES.

Now don't get me wrong, I'm a casual Nintendo fan who immensely enjoyed other games on the Super Nintendo and Nintendo games on newer consoles, Super Mario World isn't one of them because it's frustrating and it sucks.This game was a real let-down for me. I really dislike the 3rd person camera. And it takes me forever to aim. I own all duke nukem games and this is the worst. Look for something else.How many times do we have to tell game designers that game saves are an integral part of any game. Game designers, this is a PC game you're designing and not a console game.  Let's start with the bad points as Im  sure all the readers would like to read first. The game committed the most  sinful act of not providing a save game feature accessible anytime and  anywhere in the game. You could only save the game when it loads a new  scene or level. I was in a dungeon for 2 hours (real-time), dying, and I  couldn't save the game because you have to walk out of the dungeon to make  the game reload the level and save your points. This is crazy! This is an  RPG we're playing here. I mean, Final Fantasy III (console game) had built  in save points in the dungeons. Why cant a PC game like this have one? This  is a real turn-off. Next is the interface. I still have to figure out how  to properly move the character. It's so hard to control the camera as you  move the character in the game. The view pans out then suddenly pans in.  The game tried to make its interface unique and it ended up making the game  more complex. Graphics are good. Nice colors, voice acting was ok. You need  a good sized system though to run this game like a PIII 600 and 32mb video  card. Story: well, this game completely ignored the pen and paper version  with too many battles in it. I beat the game in 30 hours. So there really  isn't much there to expect. Will you buy this game? I say, don't buy it until  they patch the game with a save feature. If you're after a RPG, then look  somewhere else.I am a huge fan of vampire fiction in any form and also enjoy a good RPG.  So I was ecstatic when I heard about Vampire being translated from the pen-and-paper sources to the computer.  And Vampire is an amazing looking  game that I really wanted to like.  Unfortunately some bad design choices  and poor features prevented it from happening.
I'll start with the good  points.  The graphics are stunningly amazing.  The animation of the  characters is fluid and weapons are superbly done.  The lighting greatly  enhances the dark and sinister atmosphere.  I kept going in many places  because I wanted to see what area I would visit next.  The camera control  is also very smooth and easy to manipulate with the mouse.  The gameplay is  actually fun for the first bit of the game while you are adventuring by  yourself and with one other party member.  The source material and the  manual add a lot to this game.  Wandering around towns and seeing people  milling about made it feel alive.  And it was always oh so fun to feed upon  someone to refill your blood level.
The RPG system is also great.  There  are several positive and detrimenatl traits for the characters.  A certain  level of blood must be maintained to use the disciplines (spells/skills)  and to keep your character from succombing to frenzy.  Experience points  can be distributed among such traits as strength, dexterity, intelligence,  willpower and several others.  Very nicely done indeed.
Here is where I  have to get in to the demerits of this game.  First off, the voice acting  is not very good; but it's not the worst I've heard either.  And the  sequences of dialogue are long and boring.  The characters simply stand in  place and wave their hands about.  NPC interaction is left to a few  choices which really have little baring on the outcome of the game.  Nothing as rich and detailed as Planescape: Torment.
The combat, while  fun and reminiscent of Diablo, only keeps its spark for the first part of  the game.  Most of it consists of clicking on an enemy and waiting until  you've hit them enough times for them to die.  A big flaw that becomes  noticable during the first few levels is that the enemies wait until you  are in range before they attack.  They will simply stand idle as you  slaughter others in the same room!  As the game progresses you will gain  party members, and will bemoan similarly incompetant AI.  I equipped one  with a bow and laughed in disbelief as he continuously fired in to a wall  when he should have moved a couple steps to the side before doing so.  Also, you can control the other members of your party in combat, but the  main character will stop fighting while you are doing so!  Aaahhhh!  Add to  this that you can go through entire areas and clean up with little to no  problem, but then come across certain areas that will be nigh impossible to  pass.  Both enemies and your fellow party members will get hung up on  walls, doors and other obstacles in the room.
And here we come to the  worst sin of the game, the save system.  Saving is automatically handled  when you transition between levels are areas.  The only other way to save  is to be in your haven or safe area.  One can get there by using the Walk  the Abyss discipline (aka spell/skill).  But it takes a while before you  have one of these in a given area.  So we are left hacking our way back  through areas and levels already completed.  I found myself abusing the  autosave feature by running back and forth between levels to save.  But  what if more than one person is playing the game as is the case on my  computer?  It's pretty much tough luck.  This is a computer game, not a  console.  The game should have been balanced so that players could save  anywhere at anytime.
The multiplayer sounds enticing with the ability for  one person to take control of the NPCs and monsters.  But if the gameplay  is similar to the single-player then I can't see it being much  better.
With great graphics, a rich source material and so much  potential.  It makes me sad to not be able to like this game.  This takes  me back to Revenant, another game with a lot of potential but came up  flacid.  Maybe the patches will fix the problems, I certainly hope so.  But  much has to be done for the AI to make this game worthy.Given the pre-release hype from game sites, I was really anticipating this game as the contender for the best RTS this year. I'm pretty disappointed.
The good first: The game looks very nice. It has that same  techno-organic look as Battlezone 2, not surprising since the same guys did  it. It runs fairly nice, aside from the crashes. The framerate and overall  running is probably the smoothest I've ever seen on a 3D RTS, even  Homeworld. The interface is also quite well thought out, and a step forward  over other 3D RTS's, particularly the ease of camera movement.
Other than  that, the game is a dog. Sorry, fanboys, but I have to call it like I see  it. Gameplay is a real snoozer: Tons of dicking around and not much combat.  Everything is just deliberately slow--aircraft move as slowly as infantry  on foot, et cetera. If you are looking for fast, furious, exciting  gameplay, this is not the place to find it.
The unit pathfinding is set  up in such a way that they all move one at a time so that they don't  obstruct each other. Thus, you'll move one unit, and if any others are in  its way they will all, agonizingly, move one at a time to new positions so  the mover can get through. In any movement of groups this problem is ten  times as bad. You'll watch in frustration as your units get ripped to  shreds while they stupidly maneuver into position before they start  returning fire.
No real story is going on here; there are no characters  and nothing happens inside of a mission to alter the plot. There are some  vague cutscenes between the missions, but they're so irrelevant that you  could have just played the missions and made up your own story to string  them together.
Overall, I regret having bought the game. I can't  recommend it unless you're compelled to get an RTS fix.(This review was updated on July 10th, 2006)

I've changed my mind about Super Mario World and actually think it deserves 4 stars.  I was just in a bad mood when I originally gave the game a 2-star rating.  It turns out Super Mario World is not just a game you can enjoy growing up in the early 90's.  It actually has a lot of replay value and years later our children can enjoy Super Mario World the same way WE did.

I still stand by what I say in the original review: "The Donkey Kong Country series, for example, came along with a similar idea and made it more exciting IMO, so, if I were you I'd go with one of those games instead of Super Mario World.  For the most part the levels in the DKC series feel different from each other (plus, they feel more creative and memorable).  Unfortunately, many of the levels in Super Mario World are all basically the same and, as a result, I feel exhausted after playing the game for two hours.

To put it another way- in Super Mario World it feels like you're going through the levels simply to collect coins and extra lives.  In the Donkey Kong Country series, you pretty much do the same thing (except bananas instead of coins) but it seems like the DKC series offers more creativity in the level design, which allows you to look forward to each stage and think to yourself "I wonder what cool thing I get to do in THIS stage".  It's not like that in Super Mario World."

I still believe that, but I've recently come to change my mind a little and think that, even though most of the levels in Super Mario World feel the same, that's not necessarily a BAD thing.  I also don't think the graphics in SMW are as nice as many reviewers think.  They sort of look blocky but, to their credit, Nintendo games have always had plenty of pretty colors, which is a plus.

So go ahead and buy Super Mario World if you want to experience the joy of old-school Mario (the games MY generation grew up with).  After all, it's Mario and Mario games always have something decent going for them (except Mario Is Missing, but with time we've come to realize that game never even existed!)

Super Mario World is basically Super Mario Bros. 3 (but without all the cool Mario suits and less creative worlds).  I like in Super Mario Bros. 3 how you have water, desert, air, plant and ice worlds (in addition to more).  In Super Mario World you just have UNUSUAL worlds such as Chocolate Island and Forest of Illusion.  Those aren't as neat as the worlds in Super Mario Bros. 3.  Super Mario World should have been the best Mario game yet but Nintendo took a few steps back (but with a MONSTER like Super Mario Bros. 3 I guess it would have been difficult to make a better Mario game right after it).

Another problem in Super Mario World is that if you want to get a perfect score (96) you not only have to reach the goal in every single level, but you also have to find and grab a key in certain levels (but not all levels have keys).  This means you have to go through many levels a SECOND time.  It's sort of boring.  Once is enough.  The concept of collecting keys wasn't a good one.  I guess the good part is that if you are wearing a cape, you can quickly fly through the levels (except for water levels, and any level where the screen pushes you to the right) but that's not fun either because all you do is continue flying and pushing the back button to stay up high in the air until you reach the goal (or the key).  However, at the end of the day none of this is really enough to make the game bad in any way.  I just get tired of it.

Go ahead and get it.  Yes, it's a classic.Every once in a while I experience a piece of entertainment that is *so* overrated it's hard to believe I'm even living on the same planet as those that actually believe this is supposed to be the best. The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is that very piece of overrated entertainment. Talk about a video game that not only doesn't live up to the hype (not even close) but it doesn't do a darn thing to impress me even *if* I were to ignore all the exaggerated hype. This is a serious letdown of a video game. But again, please understand I'm not from the same planet as those that enjoy this game. I care about gameplay and replay value more than anything else. Apparently most Zelda fans believe puzzle-based dungeons and soulless overworlds are what defines the Zelda series.

One thing that positively stinks is that the land of Hyrule, despite being presented as beautiful (and realistic- don't tell me Nintendo wasn't riding the 3D high in 1998 and going for realism here) it's basically a gigantic piece of nothingness. Simply a means of getting from one area to another. A large, colorless empty field that Link either runs or rides his horse across. Nothing magical, medieval or interesting about *any* of this. It feels too much like taking a typical walk across the field beside my house. Going into this game after a Link to the Past, you'll be scratching your head wondering what happened to the huge variety of overworld enemies, pretty and colorful environments and enticing obstacles. Remember all those trees, rocks, grass and water sections from Link to the Past? Remember how rich and vibrant they looked? Ha, nothing nearly as diverse is featured in this bland and inferior overworld. Oh sure the monsters come out at night (in predictable spots) but that's it. As far as I can see, only one monster actually comes out (named Stalchild). Terribly lacking. The trees are spaced apart in a way that feels lacking too.

The dungeons is where this game severely misses the mark to such an extent that it's almost unfathomable to believe Nintendo thought releasing the game the way it is was enough to be sufficient. Again, where ARE all the enemies? Why am I roaming through temple rooms that are way too big for their own good? Are high ceilings and deep pits supposed to justify the lack of enemies because the tradeoff is that it feels like I'm really inside a castle now? Give me a break guys. The rooms are so big they basically have no life whatever. Instead of being loaded with enemies around every corner, these castles are alarmingly empty, lifeless and unacceptable. But... that's apparently okay, because Ocarina of Time is the first 3D Zelda game so its legendary influence and innovation makes it leaps and bounds above the sequels, right? Not in my world baby. The games following Ocarina of Time perfected the Zelda formula way more effectively. Wind Waker and Skyward Sword leaves this dated mess in the dust.

While normally I don't care about graphics in a video game, you gotta admit that bright vibrant colors really make the epic heroic adventurous theme of the Zelda series more engrossing. This is just... gross. Only the realistic-looking (flawed) overworld is a sight to behold (which of course now looks significantly better in Twilight Princess). Clearly the effort involved in designing the dungeons isn't much to admire. I don't really mind the occasional choppiness concerning the edges of buildings, trees or other objects that are all part of the Nintendo 64's datedness. Sometimes these unintentional features can be quite charming or, at the very least, forgiving. What I DO mind however is when these features are all over the place to the point of being a distraction, or having a game entirely too long so we're forced to persevere these issues time and time again. In other words I'd be willing to forgive this particular shortcoming if the game made up for the choppy/uninspiring graphics in other areas. Sadly, it doesn't. This isn't even much of an issue compared to the other complaints I have (which I'll mention below- keep reading). These graphics -especially the ones in the dungeons- resemble the ones found in the ruins of Mega Men Legends and the walls of the Quake series. The graphics in Link to the Past are unique and cannot be compared to any other game.

Let's discuss the dungeons, shall we? Despite being ridiculously and needlessly large with boring surroundings, most of them have such a small and uninteresting variety of enemies that it's almost a chore going through one generic room after another. Ocarina of Time shows the makings of early 3D development at its most obvious- the platforms are predictable square structures that requires the player to spend most of his or her time lining up Link in order to make proper jumps by turning the camera until Link is positioned enough to reach the platform directly ahead. When you combine the constant requirement of having to change camera angles with having to position Link correctly all for the purpose of being able to see what you're doing and where you're going, it's enough to make you think you're playing with string puppets. Again, early 3D design flaws and datedness.

The storytelling is really basic and predictable. It's never elaborate like in Wind Waker or Skyward Sword. It's mainly about rescuing or saving these mountainous cave creatures called Goron's for the first half, and going back and forth from the past to the present in the second half. This is a really uninteresting way of time travelling that feels almost nonexistent due to being so poorly and unsatisfyingly implemented. It doesn't even feel or look like you're going 7 years into the future as Link's appearance is supposed to be that of an older person but he doesn't appear to be much different from his younger self. Oh sure he's slightly bigger as an adult and slightly smaller as a kid but it's very subtle. The music is the one area where the game succeeds quite amazingly however. All the theme songs are not only appropriate for the environments, but melodic and memorable. Several dungeon themes are well-made and believably chilling and haunting. The right ingredients were definitely put into the music-making aspect of the game. The Hyrule overworld theme is enjoyable too and won't get on your nerves despite all the time you will undoubtedly spend there.

The dungeons are either incredibly simplistic with strategies that involve the overbearingly dull and overused crate-pushing to open up portals or switches, or hopelessly generic "I'm stuck in a maze and I can't get out" frustration that is an inconvenient trademark of early 3D game design. But... these aren't any ordinary mazes. These are mazes where your surroundings look identical around every turn, hence the flawed early 3D game design. A cheap way of making a maze seem more difficult than it has to be, or in other words, needlessly difficult chores instead of exciting castle exploration which is what made the 2D Zelda's so memorable. Sometimes you have to light torches with arrows or by other means, and quite often you have to collect 5 silver rupees to activate a switch/open a door. Collecting these silver rupees is WAY too similar to Super Mario 64 with the red coins. The Lost Woods is a tunnel-infested maze with no personality whatsoever. The Lost Woods -if you plan on getting everything the game has to offer- will most definitely be the source of endless frustration.

The enemies, or rather, what little enemies you will stumble upon on your "adventure" through the temples, is probably the most aggravating part of the entire game. These dungeons are sorely in need of something to spice them up and make them pleasurable. You will often go 3 or 4 rooms at a time without seeing a single enemy. Why even have a sword? In the 2D games the idea was simple- just load or overload the rooms with a variety of enemies and, guess what? *Now* the dungeons are exciting. A genius idea really. Here? In Ocarina of Time? It's all about atmosphere. It's all about featuring as little opposing danger as possible so you can absorb what was once Nintendo's most recent creation back in 1998. But... Nintendo forgot to take into account that technology will inevitably advance and a game relying on atmosphere above everything else will eventually suffer and become inferior one day. What was once a brand new puppy in 1998 is now a tired old dog thanks to the surroundings being boring and incredibly basic in their design. Video game technology is destined to advance making a game like this completely forgettable. That's exactly what has happened with Ocarina of Time- it hasn't stood the test of time.

Do you really think those poorly animated mechanical blue tektite spiders in the water dungon are worthy of a Zelda game? Seriously? Their animations are so stiff due to the Nintendo 64's limitations as a console that it's unbearable to deal with them and laughable at the way they lunge towards Link. But even then, *most* dungeon enemies fall way short of acceptable. Big Skulltula is a laughably bland attempt at being dangerous- it's more like a nuisance when one of these comes down out of nowhere while you're running around. The spikes that roll around are incredibly basic and uninteresting. Somehow *all* the enemies manage to never once be memorable. Ever! Ocarina of Time has dated horrendously, seriously. Wolfos are unintetionally funny with their choppy movements and the dated howling sounds they make, Red Bubble is basically the same thing as Big Skulltula but on fire, and Gibdos are boring. The ReDead's let out a hilarious scream that freezes Link in place which is inconvenient when you're trying to get up the ladder right in front of you and even more inconvenient when you're stuck in a room with two of them. Mummies are poorly designed since all you have to do is hookshot them, run behind them, and slice them with your sword. To be fair, some enemies are cool such as Deku Baba where it's best to snap its vine with the sword for an instant kill- creatively well done there. The Deku Scrub where you can block or sword swipe its shooting seeds with the shield and ricochet the seeds back at them is neat. And the Lizalfos and Dinalfos basically serve as mini bosses due to being somewhat harder and more sophisticated than the other ordinary enemies.

The game overall has a shortage of rupees. They're really not that important which is odd. This is the first Zelda game I've ever played where rupees feel more like an afterthought. Not something to take real seriously. If you don't feel like collecting them, then don't- no harm done. The bosses are alright except for the irritating one in the water dungeon. You have to repeatedly hookshot him while standing next to the platform. It takes FOREVER (and no, this boss is *nowhere* as fun as the water dungeon in Link to the Past in case you're wondering). The hookshot is used MORE than the sword throughout the game because it serves as an effective weapon quite often. The hookshot is a highly recommended weapon to use in a variety of situations, but especially important when collecting these things called gold skulltulas. After you collect 10 gold skulltula tokens, you get a beneficial reward. You can only collect them after defeating the gold skulltula enemy (usually found on walls). I admit I love the witches you face in the Spirit Temple. While the temple itself is really short and boring, it's probably worth going through it so you can face the two witches that make for a rather entertaining boss fight. You have to use your shield to reflect shots at the *other* witch, and it's really fun and creative. The hookshot's basically a required item to properly deal with hard-shelled or spiked enemies in the dungeons and it's annoying that it's used WAY more frequently than the sword throughout the game. Due to how much precision is required to use the hookshot, using this item becomes a very tedious chore after a while (especially if you keep missing your target) and it slows down the pace of the game by a lot.

If you haven't noticed yet, the water dungeon in Ocarina of Time is just abominable. I bring it up often to remind people how terrible a dungeon can be in every possible way. Also, the worst influence ever occurs here- the importance of playing the ocarina musical instrument for a variety of reasons (mostly for warping from one place to another). Nintendo really overdid this aspect of the game by implementing the ocarina WAY too many darn times. It's overdone. Just hurry up and play the darn song and move on for goodness sake. Don't make it so you have to play the ocarina up to 50 times, if not more. I never really counted how many times I used it. It was a lot. It severely drags the gameplay, atmosphere and excitement down and immediately drags the game to a screeching halt having to frequently stop and play these songs on the ocarina. Watching Link stand around and play the instrument is the fruitiest thing I've ever seen. No wonder people think Nintendo makes nothing but kids games these days. This game is partly responsible for that belief due to its influence.

Ganon's castle is supposed to be exhilarating and suspenseful. It's supposed to be filled with dangerous traps, tricky puzzles and enemies all over the place. But... the one in Ocarina of Time falls way short of being presentable by normal Legend of Zelda standards. Instead the castle is dominated with mini quests where you have to go through 6 trials to dispel the main barrier. The problem is that each trial contains really simple and short rooms where you only spend a couple minutes in each one performing the same tasks that you already had to do in the previous dungeons such as collecting 5 silver rupees. This is the complete opposite of being overwhelmingly threatening. Another bonus point for Link to the Past. Oh and the Ganon fight? His strategy is stolen from Agahnim's battle from Link to the Past but takes SEVERAL more minutes to bring down. Remember how you fought Agahnim? Yup, same exact strategy but in a 3D world. Sigh. The second part of the Ganon fight (after a looooong and tedious time-based departure from the top of a castle) is to shoot arrows at Ganon and hit his glowing behind several times. It's really easy, all of it. However fighting him in one of the early dungeons (Forest Temple) is actually one of the most memorable in the entire Zelda series. This is because Ganon rides a horse in and out of these picture frames hanging on the wall making for a VERY unique graphics effect and perhaps an original concept. Reminds me of a Harry Potter movie.

A few other complaints. Fishing is sort of fun but nothing really noteworthy. It's better than most fishing games I've played in other games I admit. Expect to be sitting and fishing a while in order to get the heart piece however. Most heart pieces are pretty challenging to acquire and take some serious effort to get most of them. That's a rare compliment I can give. Some of the other mini games such as riding a horse and shooting targets is pretty fun. I don't really like that part in the desert where you have to follow a ghost through a dust storm. If you fall behind even a *little* bit you'll lose. Performing this same ghost-chasing task earlier in the game in order to obtain the hookshot is more exciting since you're dodging fireballs. The other task earlier on in the game in the Ice Cavern that involves throwing blue fire over red fire is really overlong and entirely puzzle-based. Having to do this once or twice would have been suitable- not 15-20 times. This particular place is a victim of platforms that are basic and uninteresting.

Basically, when compared to the 2D games, Ocarina of Time only feels like half a game due to the dramatic change of turning the Zelda series into 3D but only giving us a small portion of what's available in Link to the Past. As a result the game feels incomplete on too many occasions. It's because the Nintendo 64 is a limited console that's really only able to handle so much. Ocarina of Time comes up way short. Even the first couple hours are disappointing since it takes forever to actually get going. Avoiding being detected by guards isn't fun after the first time. Oh and speaking of avoiding detection- this game actually has a Metal Gear Solid stealth-style mission later on where you have to free these imprisoned carpenter people. The stealth is so underutilized and simplistic that this is the second biggest chore in the game next to the water dungeon. Equally annoying is upon freeing the 4 carpenters, these red sword-swinging enemies appear on screen. The SAME EXACT ENEMY 4 times in a row with *no* differences between any of them. At first these battles seem hard until you realize all you really have to do is lunge your sword directly at them about 5 times, and they fall over and die.

Reading text and having boring discussions with Zelda, trees and other semi-interesting characters doesn't get the job done either. Ganon even seems significantly less threatening than usual (that one conversation with Zelda and Link with Ganon patrolling the hallways nearby in Hyrule Castle comes to mind here). I will admit that some of the flame-covered cutscenes involving Ganon riding his horse is very intimidating. The cutscene outside the bridge of Hyrule Castle comes to mind here. Otherwise, Ganon's presented uninterestingly. You're *supposed* to get a feeling of hopelessness that Ganon is going to take over the world and wipe the people out but... due to a culmination of the above mentioned problems, Ganon being a ruthless villain doesn't ever materialize (at least, he's not as scary as he *should* be).

Recognize Ocarina of Time for making the 3D Zelda series exist. That's fair. It allowed Wind Waker to eventually be created which in turn made the 3D Zelda formula better starting from that game until now. By 2003 Nintendo was working with the technologically superior Gamecube console which allowed the Zelda series to be fully realized in all major categories (gameplay, graphics, replay value and excitement). I say avoid Ocarina of Time but hey, nobody will listen or agree with me anyway so carry on and have a wonderful day!this game is two hard for younger kid to navigate , and it is a little hard for them to understand how to play it. But the graphic are good.This X game was just tedious.  I remember the original X game on the SNES was fun, as were X2 and X3, but this one was just bad.  Playing as X or Zero was fun, but Zero was hard to control and both storylines were, well, boring.  I was almost to the point of yawning.  Plus, it was easy to figure out who the final boss was for anyone who has ever played an X game.  Additionally, some of the upgrades to Xs armor made him harder to operate, and, well, I guess what I really want to say is this was boring.  I was bored stiff.  I couldn't wait to beat it so I could move on to something else.  Unlike X, X2 and X3, there is almost no replay value in this game.  I mean, beyond the cheat codes for the special X armor and Dark Zero, nothing.  I only hope that X5 and X6 are better, but I'm not sure if they will be.I think the game play is great the music was good but the main thing that made me give this a low rating are none other than the lacking of the graphics they are absolutely horrible and it makes it really hard to see where you going sometimes.

Well thats all I got to say, This game would have been great if it weren't for the attrocious graphics and I think the PC version was alot better.I play a great many strategy games and I consider myself to be a fairly decent player, though not great by any means. On the one hand, I truly enjoy playing IG2.  The mechanisms of planet building and support, the ship design, the research tree, and the general interface are all excellent and make the game a pleasure to play.  Or would if the difficulties (easy, normal, hard) were actually indicative of anything. When I play a game on easy, I expect to learn how to play and very likely win on my first try.  In IG2, the easy was so easy, I won before I really felt I had a handle on the game. Normal level should be a challenge.  I should need to play well, and in the end, I should still only win about half the time.  I've lost count of how many times on "normal" (as the Solarians) I have not even come close to winning.  I get wiped out every time by a Kra'Hen fleet so large I can't even conceive of what I would need to do to make one half its size.  Sometimes I die even sooner. Goodness forbid that I even try to play on "hard" difficulty. For any normal game, I have come to expect that the "hard" difficulty to really be "nearly impossible".  In IG2, normal mode does this, and I feel the game is hardly worth the trouble as a result. I have tried as the Shinarians as well, with similar results. In conclusion, while I truly liked the game architecture, I cannot recommend this to anyone.  I found this to be one of the most frustrating games I have played in quite some time.The game idea was good, but the running and loading lock up the computer or slows it to a crawl.Although this game has different playability than Risk 1 and good graphics, it is the cheatenist game I've ever played, it is nigh impossible to win these games, except only occasionally, and by then you are too worn out from trying to win to enjoy it. I would not bother with it, stick with Risk 1, the original. I'm an old risk player from way back, I used to play the board game with my brother in law many years ago, and I have the pc version of original Risk,and even though that game cheats as do all computer games, it's not near half as bad as risk 2.This version of Risk I thought was an overall bad idea because it just played of the original.  furthermore,  the original RISK 1 disk was more than good enough in every department.  The company who released this video game was just trying to "update" the game in which didn't needed to be updated.  bad job over allIt really is a shame...  This game was so close to being awesome, but, like just about every other Lucasfilm game (except Super Empire Strikes Back on SNES), it fails in its execution.
I'll start with the positives though.  The graphics are excellent, though the characters may appear just SLIGHTLY dated.  They animate very well, having been motion-captured.  The backgrounds are awesome, and so is the music.  Of course, you can't go wrong with Star Wars when it comes to graphics and music anyway.  The character voices are even cool as they sound just like their actor counterparts.
However, the gameplay... this, unfortunately, is what ruins it.  Now, there are some cool features here such as a free running mode which makes the game truly 3D like Bushido Blade (and unlike the pseudo 3D of Tekken, for instance).  There is also a limited guard meter (like Street Fighter Alpha 3), which prevents turtling.  Unfortunately though, these nice features are overshadowed by very serious flaws.  First of all, the are the motion-captured moves.  While they look great, they're also extremely jerky when translated to the game.  They are also plagued with horrible lag and recovery times.  Even a simple jab leaves you open for all sorts of counterattacks.  The other problem is the control: it flows like 3-year-old Heinz ketchup.  There is no hope of stringing any moves together because the game cancels out all additional button presses from the moment you start a move all the way until your character completely recovers at the end of the move.  This wouldn't be so bad, except for the previously mentioned problem: extremely slow recovery times.  In fact, the lag time for throwing a swing is longer than the recovery time from getting hit by one!  This means that you hit the opponent with your strongest move, and they recover from it before you do.
The most annoying problem though, by far, is the sidestepping.  Though this may be a cool feature, it is also horribly abused.  The computer AI seems to have an obsession with it, sidestepping constantly (I've timed it--they never go more than 2 seconds without sidestepping, even when they aren't being attacked).  Now, this doesn't sound like much, but it really is a huge problem.  The constant sidestepping also rotates the game's camera.  This makes the computer impossible to hit with any straightforward attack because you are never properly aligned with them.  Combine this with the slow recovery times, and you'll run into situations like this:  You smack the enemy with the first hit in a combo which, logically, should set him up for the next hit, right?  Wrong.  Because of the unbalanced recovery times, he'll recover before your second swing ever comes out, and he'll sidestep, then stand there watching as you go off swinging at the air in some odd direction.  Then he'll automatically turn to face you and hit you in the back of the head (since your character takes forever to re-align himself properly when he isn't facing the opponent--another design flaw).  The constant camera rotation (or, swirling, to be more precise) makes you lose all orientation on the playing field.  Add to this archaic features such as "Ring Out" (which should have gone out in the Jurassic period of fighting games), and you have an unplayable, nerve-wracking mess.  Basically, you will lose many matches from being smacked in the back of the head as the computer rotated the camera on you, or by cheap Ring Outs because you couldn't see where you were on the battlefield (again, because the computer rotated the camera on you).
I'm not particularly a fan of 3D fighters, and this game reminds me of why.  Stay away from this one.  If you're not a Star Wars fan, it's just a bad fighting game.  If you are a Star Wars fan, that will make you even more disappointed in this title.I was unimpressed with this game. The races are too similar to each other. The ships within each race do not differ much except in size. Mouse control is painfully sluggish. Space is two-dimensional - ...Resource collection is uncreative. Several ship classes are missing, such as the Intrepids. Only 8 ships can be selected at a time. Whether I played the Borg or the Federation, I got the feeling that I was just building the same things with different graphics in a [copy] of Starcraft.
Generally, a rather half-hearted effort at a real-time strategy game. It's not bad, really, it's just that there are much better games out there. Like Armada II.Banjo-Kazooie is a strange platformer, but ultimately misses the mark in all key areas of being entertaining.  It tries to be funny without actually being exciting to play so the game feels like a big misleading tease.  All the attention on humor and yet, the game itself is hardly ever fun.  This means children would probaly be able to overlook the games flaws and focus on the humor, which I'm sure was Nintendo's intentions- to market the game for kids and assume they wouldn't be able to detect the lousy game design.  I guess the Nintendo 64 struggling to make a profit at the time meant Nintendo had to do absolutely anything and everything to try and get *any* type of crowd interested in their products despite the poor quality we're forced to persevere, so that explains Banjo-Kazooie's existence.

Anyway, Banjo-Kazooie is basically nothing but an item-collecting quest with graphics that are admittedly prettier and just better than 90% of the stuff the N64 was pumping out at the time.  The waters, grassy lands, mountains... everything is a beautiful sight to behold with crystal clear authentically pleasing environments.  Probably on par with Donkey Kong 64 in terms of graphics but definitely NOT in terms of gameplay or the sheer size of the overworld which is incredibly tiny in Banjo-Kazooie.  But seriously, why am I basically doing nothing but walking around collecting items the entire time?  If you think "That's what ALL platformers do!" guess again: many of them focus on exciting enemy variety, diverse surroundings and a gradual increase in challenge which this game sorely lacks.  The only challenge is to avoid falling from high narrow platforms while collecting musical notes- these are dirty tricks and artificial challenges.  I found sharks you have to swim away from, crabs you can stomp on top of, and weird gigantic green enemies that come out of walls while you're trying to make your way across high paths without falling.  These enemies only appear like 10% of the time- the rest of your surroundings aren't very threatening.

Let's see all the things you have to collect.  Honeycomb pieces, jiggy pieces (mandatory to open entrances to new locations and you need to obtain a certain number of them per world), 100 musical notes which is a total ripoff of Super Mario 64 with the 100 coins needed to get a star, mumbo tokens used to cast spells, and jinjo tokens used to win vehicle parts.  You can turn into animals and insects which is somewhat satisfying for the sake of seeing the occasional brief moments of diversity, but otherwise nothing to get really excited about.  Often you have to climb trees or mountains to reach the items on top and it gets boring after a while, believe me.  The snowy and dessert areas are incredibly generic too, as are the underwater cave sections and grasslands.

Oh and the game is a victim of underwater tragedies- you're constantly adjusting the camera for a more appropriate angle but finding that it's much harder than it needs to be.  I will never understand why Nintendo refuses to fix water portions in 3D platform gaming.  It's mind-boggling.  They didn't even fix them in Super Mario Galaxy 2, a game released a good 10 years after Banjo-Kazooie.  The characters are all forgettable, including the ponytail-sporting female bear and Banjo himself.  Kazooie the bird is probably the only tolerable one of the bunch.

Whereas the Mario series can be enjoyed by kids and adults respectively, Banjo-Kazooie is certainly intended solely for children and no other age group.  It's too shallow of a game overall to satisfy adult gamers.  Banjo-Kazooie is like walking into the nicest looking restaurant in town and everything is great except for one thing- you get a small quantity of food so you ask yourself "Is it worth my time to return here again?"All right, the graphics are nice and the terrain damage is something new, but that doesn't make up for the gameplay, which could be summed up in one word:SLOW.
Skirmishes take a real long time to get going; I mean, at least a half an hour before you can get a sizeable force. And then what do you find yourself doing? Protecting your base with them, and attacking with missle launches. I'm dead serious, the only way to attack is with missle launches. To attack with your men (Especially tanks) takes like ten minutes to even get to the enemy base!
That being said, the multiplayer is a total waste of time. If the person your playing saves you the trouble of teching and attacks you early on with engineers, consider yourself lucky. Don't get caught up in a 3 hour game that is just about to be resolved, when you or your opponent loses his/her connection. And don't consider engineering a cheap way to attack, it's the only way anyone attacks...
THe campaign is allright I guess, if you can stand the poor gameplay to get from cutscene to cutscene (Which aren't as good as Red Alerts were).
.... Come on, you can't tell me NOD doesn't have a huge advantage over GDI. They do.
Let's hope Kane bites the dust soon, before the C&C series turns as twisted as "The Forgotten".Let me clear something up: This is by no means a bad game. It is decently enjoyable. However, the reason for the lower score is mostly due to my disappointment with this game. Everybody built it up as the "Best Mario Kart Game". However, my experience with it made it turn out to be my least favorite in the series. It doesn't play fantastic, the graphics are ok, and the game is fairly smooth. However, this game is far from deserving of the unreasonable prices and high praise it gets.