Azure Dreams isn't really like other RPGs. It's actually more of a random dungeon game. Like Chocobo Dungeon and Diablo. These games really seem to  fit into there own category these days. Also it has a monster training part  to it where you brought you monster in the dungeon to fight for you. Also  within the game is a very weird part of plot. You get to sees the faces of  the women you have gotten to become your loyal women while you save. If you  run the story correctly on all of them in the end your basically the town  pimp.
As far as game play goes when entering the dungeon you are always  brought down to level 1 and only able to take 5 items inside. This is an  annoying thing. Your monsters do not loose levels but as they survive they  loose magic and leave way to fast. Also to keep your weapons in poor shape  early you well have problems with rust traps, which lower their quality.  Also there are items they raise the quality of the weapon and shield (only  equipment you wear) threw the game called sands. A good thing to remember  is gold swords do not rust, neither do diamond or mirror shields. Without  knowing that the game can get pretty boring faster. The game is very  repetitive. You end up doing the same thing over and over again while you  get to the deeper levels of the dungeon again and again. Even though they  change every time it does get old to meet the same monsters hoping for a  sand so you can get to the next floor again and again and again. I fell  asleep while playing this game at least six times.
As far as plot goes  the plot within 27 hours of playing you well forget the game had a plot and  you well only be reminded in the very end.
The graphics to this game are  sprits. They are not poorly done sprites but I have seen higher quality.  There are many different looking monsters and every couple floors the  dungeon's floor takes a new appearance. But eventually it does some  repeating and none of the pictures are that beautiful.
And finally as far  as length of time it can stay interesting it depends on how patient you  are. This game involves a lot of patience. Even though I fell asleep while  playing it many times I enjoyed it all the way until I beat it, but if you  are going to play it its defiantly a buy game and not a rent  game.
Overall this game is not for everyone, but if your very patient and  you have a lot of free time to see a weird game that combines monster  raising, dungeon exploring, and... RPG style control to dating. Get Azure  dreams.