Crash Bandicoot Warped
I have always loved the Crash Bandicoot Series. The original three on the Playstation were good, and the ones that would follow were always decent. I went back to play this classic and discovered it was just as great as I remembered. Still, it does have its low points.

Graphics- 8/10
On the original Playstation, these graphics were fairly good. The characters look blocky at points, but it sort of adds to the appeal. Voice syncing is pretty well done. Levels and characters are interestingly designed. The fact that most levels have another level that looks similar doesn't really bother me. They change the levels up enough to where it feels like you are playing a different level.

Story- 3/10
This is the part of the game that is a huge letdown. Neo Cortex, our antagonist, starts the game off exactly like he was left on the second game...falling from the sky. After failing to stop Crash Bandicoot from capturing all of the powerful Crystals, he plummets from his exploding spaceship and falls into a mountain. Inside of the mountain just so happens to be Uka Uka, a powerful witch mask that appears to have been giving Cortex orders all along. Uka Uka was trapped in the mountain by Aku Aku to keep the world safe. Now Uka Uka has escaped with Cortex. Uka Uka quickly recruits Dr. N. Trophy to build him a time machine so he can find the Crystals before Crash Bandicoot was even around.

This honestly doesn't sound too bad. Until you see Crash and his friends at home. Aku Aku hears Uka Uka's evil laugh and senses danger. Then you suddenly appear at the time machine that Cortex is using and now you are using it. What happened to Cortex? I have no idea. How did you find your way there? Who knows? From there you use the time machine to get to the Crystals before Cortex.

Sound- 8/10
I love the music in this game. Every level type has different music, and it works for every level. If you are in an underwater level, you will hear mysterious sounding music. They just did the music very well. The voice acting is top notch as well. Sound effects are the same old Crash Bandicoot sounds though. It's not the best video game sound, but it's still really good.

Gameplay- 9/10
Gameplay can make or break a game. Luckily the Gameplay made this game. They added more variety than any of the previous games in the series.

Crash Bandicoot is basically a side-scroller except the camera is behind Crash instead on the side. You are still on a fixed path that you have to follow. Sometimes you will even enter a part of the stage that is a side-scroller. The gameplay has always work very well like this.

Warped is the third game in the series though, and they needed to add something new. They did just that by adding: Power Ups, Flying levels, underwater levels, jet-ski levels, and motorcycle racing levels. Power ups are gained whenever you defeat a boss. You get small things like double jump and belly flop at first. Later on you'll get a Laser Guided Bazooka and Running Shoes, which really change up the gameplay. One thing that I am happy about is that the Power Ups actually help you play the game. They aren't just useless add-ons

The new level types are just what this game series needed. The underwater levels play like a side-scroller underwater. It's enjoyable to swim around instead of walking. Jet Ski and Motorcycle levels are great vehicle levels. I admit that the controls on the Motorcycle levels take some getting used to, but that is what makes it fun. The flying levels are probably the coolest new things. There are only three in the entire game. You fly around in a plane and shoot down opposing planes. There isn't much to it, but it's a nice break from the other levels.

Difficulty- 5/10 (Note- This is how much I like the difficulty)
This game is extremely easy. You can go through the entire game without dying. Not just that, but the entire game only consists of around 3-4 hours of your time. One strong afternoon of playing, and you'll be done. The bosses on this game can become a little difficult, but it only takes a few minutes to learn their pattern. Also, I felt the final boss battle was too easy.

Overall- 7/10
The gameplay is extremely strong. The story for this game is just all out of whack. If you are looking for a quick game to pick up and play, this is for you. I suggest checking out the previous two titles first though. They are&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Crash-Bandicoot/dp/B00000I1BQ/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Crash Bandicoot</a>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Crash-Bandicoot-2/dp/B00000I1BR/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Crash Bandicoot 2</a>. They are better games in my opinion.