Sim city 3000 is great for people looking for a game that is fun, pulls you in, mildly addictive, and not too complex, the unlimited version only offers more building sets and other things that some people would pay for, but nothing relavent.

From 1 to 1oo, this game would get a 40, why? Becuase it just isn' that good of a game, I'm an expert ing gaming and pcs and have been in the business since windows 95. But this game is made for the average "dumb american", that is why it is so simple, and lacks any depth. This game is perfect for teenagers, soccer moms, and stud people, but anybody who likes a good challenging game shouldn't even look in it's direction.

These are the good things about the game....

1. It has playability value but not much, from 1 to 10 maybe a 3, becuase once you master it( spoiler, it takes about a hundred years to get a size million in a city) you just don't give a damn about playing it again.

2. System requirements are low, and it runs on the most ancient pc that is feasible.

3. It's easy to learn to play, and inexpensive, and the graphics are pretty good for those who care unless you get to close( highest zoom).

4. You can voyage out of reality and build a city of imagination.

Now these are the concerns about the game.

1. The game has very little realistic qualities about it, it is not in check with the real word, even the information bar suggest it was mad for kids.

2. There is no names for streets, no district and area setting, and no combining indidvidual parks to make one small, medium or large park( Different small or large parks placed to getting but functioning different ans seperate is not realistic).

3. There are not as many tax forms as they are in the real world, and the maps are either way too small or only show the central part of the city, which is also unrealistc, since all large cities have metros.

4. The max loan size is way too small, and the interest is a bit extreme.

5. The airports don't generate as much income as they should.

6. There are not nearly enough mass transit options in the game, and the availabe ones are very unrealistic. The train option is just horrific, and the subway us expensive and not very fun to build,( they were probably thinking that the game is about cit building, but transportation is a huge part of any city over 300,000) the highways are basicly useless and very expensive and difficult to build, and there are no underground building and other types of roads and highways, and no street lights and signs.

7. It is just about impossible to get a city size of over 4 million even on the larget plot availabe, and even when thinking this is just the central part of a city and the metro is not shown on map is still not feasible, since the large us cities have far more than 5million people in there central part.

8. The game crashes and is racked with bugs.

all in all you see why this game gets a 40, if less, this game is not just that great, hopefully they will fix atleast 60 percent of these major flaws(anything less is unacceptable) in the next simcity, and as for simcity 4, lets not just go there,and there will not be a five, ( I believe maxis is not in operation anymore and has just not announced it), but the city simulation industry is still wide open and the demand is high.