I have played this through several times because the puzzles are excellent and you kill zombies.  There are many puzzles I still haven't solved and I may end up playing though again just to see whats there.  Also, some of the graphics were nice and I love the fear, even though I played RE's 2&3 first, this one scared me the most (but being the first I played, only RE2 gave me nightmares for months).  I will agree, this game is hard core, and there is plenty to like about it.  I love interactive movie feeling like Final Fantasy VII and Wing Commander: Prophecy.
However, now I will list what I didn't like.  Why I only gave it three stars.  Well, to start off, the cinematics are not only outdated, but horribly done to begin with.  If I made the game, I would have just said: "Y'know, that was really bad, let's just not have a cinematic."  Also, the movement is quite shabby and fake looking, and while a zombie hovers into a standing position, you can't shoot him until he is standing up and walking toward you.
If you think that such a picky thing about positioning, picking up items is worse.  You can commonly at a position in which you appear to be facing an item perfectly, but you can't pick it up, because it's really 30 degrees to your left or something like that.  With these positions, you are forced to listen to mind-numbing music.  I thought the sound effects were bad and the voice acting made the sound bad enough, but they had to go and give us the abolute worst soundtrack you will ever find, for any game or B-Movie.  The only trouble with the music is that you require listening to the sound effects to survive, and so you must endure the music as well!
However, the music is beaten in abysmal-ness by its dialogue.  The script is terrible, and to say the voice acting is laughably bad would be a huge understatement.  It doesn't end there.  The pitiful dialogue scenes do nothing but tell one of the most cliche-ridden plots ever devised.  You have police traitors, huge creatures that come out of rooms that you just came out of to kill you, and worst of all, you have about three dozen times through the two stories (which are almost identical) where people walk in just in the nick of time to save the other.  That type of stuff makes me sick.  You are alone for about two hours, when suddenly a trap goes off, right as your partner happens to be right outside.
Lets rate everything: Images: 8,  Movement: 5,  Script: 1.5,  Sound Effects: 6,  Background Story: 5,  Music: 0.5,  Voice Acting: 0,  Puzzles: 10+,  Mosters: 5/6,  Weapons: 8,  Fear: 9.5,  Plot/Sequence of Events: -2.