The other night one of my friends picked up the new Twisted Metal game for the PS3. After playing for a few minutes, a wave of memories came flooding back into my mind of the original vehicular combat game (well, besides Carmageddon), so I had to dust it off and throw it in the other day. To my surprise, I played for a couple of hours and found myself still enjoying it.

It looks awful. The controls are pretty unresponsive. The computer is unforgiving and the other cars are almost always at an advantage. So you must be wondering, why exactly did I enjoy this game? Maybe it was the nostalgia factor, but I think it was more of the fact that the game is so simplistic that you can jump right into it and play it without having to sacrifice a ton of time to do so. I beat the game in under an hour; there are only 6 levels to play through, each one amping up the difficulty. Players are not really rewarded for progressing through the game over multiple playthroughs. It is this lack of replayability that factors into my rating of the game.

The characters are memorable. There are 12 in total, each one coming with a ridiculous backstory.  Just about every one of these characters is balanced, offering enough of a challenge to make you think through your actions. Will you select Mr. Grimm, with his ultra powerful weapons, or sacrifice speed for a bruiser that can take a lot of damage, such as the monster truck? The bottom line is that there is something here for everyone.

The violence is so over the top that it's comical, rather than graphic. I won't focus on the story, because there isn't much of one. The game centers around an annual competition, in which the last "man" standing is granted a wish that he can use to get anything desired. I think it goes without saying that you're not picking this game up for the story line. At the end of the day, the game feels dated. Passwords take the place of save features, and the game has an arcade feel to it. The soundtrack is just good enough where it doesn't get annoying, but it is repetitive and far from memorable, having a heavy metal feel to it. In the end, don't expect to be overwhelmed by the games presentation. However, that does not mean that you shouldn't play this game if you haven't already done so. Any fan of video games or the Twisted Metal series can still appreciate this classic.