Back when the Sony Playstation and Nintendo 64 were first released, people were getting all excited over Super Mario 64 in 1996.  It was new, it was innovative.  It had something.  Meanwhile, the Sony Playstation got Crash Bandicoot, and this was described as a game that could take Mario on at his own game.  That, of course, didn't happen, as Mario still holds the torch.  However, Crash Bandicoot wasn't a bad game.  It was, however, a bit more flawed than most other games out there for certain reasons, the main one seeming to be its unforgiving difficulty.  There were, of course, other mitigating factors.

Crash Bandicoot carries the--even then--overdone save the damsel in distress storyline, ala Mario saving Princess Peach over and over.  Much like Mario, however, Crash wasn't about storyline.  It was about gameplay, and here it's just as simplistic as it is in your average 2D side-scroller.  Crash only has two attacks.  His spinning attack and a jump attack.  You'll use this to take down your enemies.  There are advantages to using one attack over the other.  For example, the spinning attack can potentially send enemies flying into other enemies while the jump attack gives Crash some extra air, which is actually needed to access some of the games little secrets.

Throughout each level, Crash also has the ability to obtain Aki-Aki.  A mask that serves to protect Crash.  If you have one you can sustain two hits before you die.  If you have two you can sustain three hits.  If you have three you'll be temporarily invincible.  The game also makes it a point to give you an Aki-Aki if you're dying too many times in a certain level, and believe me, that'll happen a lot.  The good news is that Crash Bandicoot isn't shy about giving you extra lives.  The bad news is that you'll still mow through a lot of them pretty quickly.  A lot of the times things are just unfair.  The camera is permanently fixed behind Crash, so sometimes it's hard to predict jumps, or sometimes even where some enemies are.  Also, the amount of surprises they throw at you can be annoying as well.  Like a bridge where the planks fall out and then you get to what is seemingly a dead end only to find out that you've no time to look because the plank your standing on is also lose.  Thus, you've no choice but to go through a lot of trial and error in levels.

To its credit, though, Crash Bandicoot has a variety of levels.  There's the basic 3D platforming where you basically run through the level in a straight line with the camera behind you, but there are some levels that make you go about the old fashioned way by these levels being 2D side-scrollers.  There are also levels where you'll run from a boulder in Indiana Jones style, levels where you'll ride on a hog.  You'll get your fill from these levels.  Although, many level designs are also very simplistic and straightforward.  There's not a whole lot of exploration to be done, and even when you can veer off course, you'll only be backtracking to get back on the right course.  In short, many levels are just too linear.

Mastering the game is also fairly difficult.  Throughout each level there are crates that you have to smash.  If you smash all the crates, you score a perfect.  Seems simple right?  Well, the catch is you have to smash every crate in the level without dying.  And again, with some unfair camera angles in some levels, and the trial and error, you'll be attempting to score a perfect on a level several times.  Likewise, it seems strange that the levels are so difficult yet the games bosses are so easily taken down--including the final boss Dr. Neo Cortex.  Most boss battles aren't a challenge, but getting to them sure as hell is.

Even the games save system is flawed.  As you go through each and every level you'll find tokens that'll let you catch a glimpse of the girl Crash is out to save in this game.  The problem is this token is hidden in crates throughout the level.  The second problem is that you need three of them.  The THIRD problem is that you have to go through some stupid mini-level in order for your game to actually be saved.  They're played out in a 2D side-scroller like fashion with the exception that even in these levels there are some 3D elements, which again require trial and error to get through sometimes.  At least you don't lose a life... just the chance to save your game.  The FOURTH problem with this is that once you collect all three tokens, whether you were able to make it through the bonus round and save your game or not, you can't get them again.  Thus in each level you're only given the chance to save once, and you may not even get it!  This is inexcusable.  The later installments of the series certainly did a better job with the save feature.  There's also a password system here for those who don't have a memory card, and that's really nice to have.  Again, however, it sucks that you only really get one chance to save.  You can save after scoring a perfect on a level, but again, that's a one time deal.  You can't go to an easy level, score a perfect and save again.

Despite its gameplay issues, Crash Bandicoot looked good at least.  Especially for a game released in 1996.  It runs fairly smoothly, and just looks great for the time of its release.  It wasn't a launch title, but at least it was a game that was easy on the eyes.  The levels also look good and even too this day the game still has a particular visual charm to it.  It can't hold a candle up to today's graphics but in 1996 this was a charmer.  The game also didn't sound so bad either.  Some tunes do get annoying, but a lot of tunes really satisfy the levels, and the sound effects are brilliant.  As far as presentation goes, Crash Bandicoot really knew how to hand it to us.

Unfortunately, it's unforgiving difficulty may actually be enough to turn some fans away after a while.  Was it a good game?  Sure it was.  But the first installment just had a lot of unforgiving issues that thankfully were worked out in the second game.  It's not bad for a first outing, but a game shouldn't be so unforgiving in its difficulty.

Pros:

+It's a good looking game

+It sounds good

+Simple gameplay that anyone can pick up and learn

+A variety of levels

+Tons of secrets and little things to do; you'll be busy just trying to complete the game 100%

Cons:

-The difficulty level of this game is unforgiving

-Bad camera angles

-The games levels are difficult yet the games bosses are disturbingly easy

-A lot of trial and error moments

-Many levels are too linear

-The save system set up is absolutely horrible

It's still a good game, but later games in the series do a far better job.