Croc, original released in 1997 had the same appeal that Crash Bandicoot had.  It was a simplistic game that was absolutely gorgeous to look at.  Obviously inspired by Crash Bandicoot and Super Mario 64, Croc was a game that could've been for everyone.  However, lackluster controls and a bad camera make Croc more frustrating than fun.

As with most games aimed at the younger audience, Croc has a simple story.  The Gobbos have been kidnapped by an evil Baron.  It's up to Croc to save the Gobbos and stop the Baron.  And he'll traverse four worlds to do it.

The level layout of Croc is surprisingly good.  Levels are pretty straightforward but you'll be able to veer off path whenever you need to.  In every level your goal is to get to the end and ring the gong.  Along the way Croc will be faced with enemies and natural traps like lava or freezing waters.  In every level you'll also collect gems.  From level to level the total gems you finish with stack up on each other.  For every 100 gems you'll get an extra life, and you'll need those lives.  There are also six Gobbos in every level you venture to.  Five of them are scattered throughout the level randomly.  However, the last Gobbo requires you to find five special gems and open a special door at the end of a level.  Upon finding those gems and opening a special door, the game will usually make you play some kind of bonus game or solve a puzzle to get the last Gobbo.  Some of these parts of the game are incredibly frustrating.  For example, in one bonus game you'll have to make Croc jump on buttons in order to "whack" sheep in a sort of Whack the Mole fashion.  However, it speeds up and the controls aren't all that friendly.

That may very well be the biggest problem with Croc.  The game is such a pain to control.  You'll suffer a lot for this.  Up always moves Croc forward but the camera is always moving.  Croc doesn't turn sharp enough so you'll mostly spend time stopping and turning so that you can continue on your way.  This wouldn't be so bad if there weren't enemies on your tail or if you didn't have to stop and turn on a collapsing platform.  Even worse is the camera.  You don't get control over it at all.  The view doesn't shift fast enough which may lead to you running into an enemy simply because you don't know where it is, or having to quickly jump off a collapsing platform.  These issues make Croc--an already challenging game as it is--harder than it has to be.  It's frustrating as well.  The game has potential, and the right gameplay elements, but the controls make it too hard.  However, it is still a good challenge.  Completing the game 100% by finding all the Gobbos and getting the second ending is a task in and of itself.

What Croc lacks in gameplay it certainly makes up for in everything else.  The game looks stunning.  Especially for a Playstation game in 1997.  The FMVs look incredible, the bosses look spectacular.  The environments look incredible as well.  There are hardly any Playstation games that look this smooth or run this well.  The soundtrack is also a beautiful soundtrack.  In terms of production values, Croc is an astonishing game to behold.

In short, Croc is a good game, but a game that would've been so much better if it didn't suffer from such horrible controls and a bad camera.  It's a fun game, but only barely so.  There will be many gamers who won't be able to let those issues slide.