Croc is one of those games I only had a small chance encounter with when I was younger. The demo disc that came with my PlayStation back in 1997 had a demo of the game and by all accounts I was pretty taken with. The graphics were bright and colorful, the world it presented (and by extension Croc and the Gobbos) were cute and likable and overall it seemed to be a pretty solid 3D platformer. Developed by Argonaut Software who developed the Super FX technology used in Nintendo's Star Fox on the SNES in the early 1990's, I ordered a copy of the game based on those memories... but fifteen years is a long time to be away from any game and with advancements in gaming this leaves little room for error. Unfortunately, if the title of this review is any indication, Croc pretty much squanders most of the good will its positives bring to the table and only serves as a history lesson as to why the series never saw daylight after the 32-bit generation.

Almost all of Croc's problems center on the controls. Well, it's not completely on the controls, rather it's a combination of the controls AND a camera that does whatever it wants - but if it wasn't for this I firmly believe more people would remember it. The game's controls are not unlike those in Core Design/Edios' Tomb Raider series - which in today's world some people find rather archaic - but I'm still at home with them since I grew up with that game. What makes Croc different (and ultimately more problematic) is the camera is not completely locked behind Croc at every moment. This makes certain moments of the game painful to play and its because these controls are more befitting of a game like Tomb Raider where the game world is more technical being built on a grid of squares. This isn't the case with Croc.

Well, that's kind of a lie because the further you get in the Legend of Gobbos the more technical (and challenging) the levels are with all their little platforms and obstacles where the clunky controls become a real liability. Even worse are the controls when Croc is underwater or doing a mini-game as these sections are simply horrendous. The situation with the controls is a real shame since the game (aside from the utterly pathetic boss battles) would still be astounding today if it wasn't for them. It's (kind) of possible to enjoy Croc despite its problems but I personally had to play the game in small bite-sized portions to really avoid my building frustrations - a red flag for a gamer if there ever was one.

Despite Croc's shortcomings I can't really tell people to flat-out avoid the game. I still have a soft spot for it (and the characters) despite what I experienced while playing through it. Still, if you can I'd recommend trying - or revisting - the game before you buy it. For those that played Croc when it originally came out nostalgia might be enough to save it, but those without an attachment to the IP will quickly see the game as the ailing entity it is.