People used to make a big deal how Star Fox 64 was supposedly an improvement over the Super NES's Star Fox.  Not in my world it's not.  Star Fox 64 uses eye candy and colorful animations to disguise several moments of mediocrity.  No doubt it uses eye candy to disguise the lack of challenge.  The reason the Super NES's Star Fox was so successful is because it's able to combine challenge with really intense atmosphere giving the gamer the impression he's helpless in the galaxy (especially whenever your life is low- a feeling you hardly encounter in Star fox 64).  The pressure would get really intense whenever you begin to lose your teammates (Peppy, Slippy and Falco) and you wonder how much longer you'll be able to survive.  However I feel no pressure whatsoever in Star Fox 64 regardless how many of my animal friends go down or how low my health meter is.

I think the game is going for a cinematic feel while completely ignoring a degree of challenge.  The game certainly *looks* good.  Another problem is that the enemy variety is really lackluster and you're hardly ever swarmed with too many enemies which is a negative in my book because it means the intensity of the flight shooting isn't quite strong or memorable enough overall.  The music is another major disappointment.  Whereas on the Super NES the music was extremely catchy, suspenseful and memorable, no such treatment occurs here in Star Fox 64.  Instead every stage has quiet generic hard rock with no noticeable melody and it sounds really average to me.

While I don't mind having your team constantly radioing in and giving advice, it was a better format on the Super NES when they didn't actually speak.  This is because Peppy, Slippy and Falco talk a LOT.  Slippy in particular sounds like a child which is grating.  The enemy Andross talks a lot too.  Every few seconds you'll hear them speak and while some of the stuff they say is surprisingly enjoyable, I don't really want to hear it every time I fly a mission.  Most everything they say is playful anyway.  The explosion of enemy aircrafts tends to feel like an afterthought too, with no suspense occurring there either.  Tame explosions instead of violent and memorable ones like in the original Star Fox.  This is partly due to enemies appearing significantly less frequently than in the Super NES's Star Fox.

Well let me mention the levels.  Meteo is decent but a boring imitation of the same type of dark space stage we see in the Super NES's Star Fox where you're constantly surrounded by flying boulders and a high danger level.  In fact that's the biggest problem with this game- you swerve around traps and enemies *some* times, but it's never a very threatening or frequent occurrence.  It's a very tame flight you're taking most of the time.  Fortuna is a generic level with lots of flying and very little action.  Sector X is a high point due to featuring several moments of swarming around dangerous traps and closing objects while Titania is a pretty decent level while driving around on the ground in the landmaster vehicle.

Boise Defense Outpost contains a force field, and it gets tedious chasing enemies for a while.  Katina is tedious as well since it takes forever to open hatches on enemies.  It's boring.  Solar is awesome however since it involves dodging giant snake-shaped fireballs.  Macbeth is a train chase on the landmaster.  It's a pretty fun stage but the boss fight is once again tedious since it takes forever to defeat.  Sector Y is an awesome outer space dark level avoiding floating space crafts.  Aquas Ocean is even MORE awesome!  Hey alright, some memorable levels for a change.  The statues you fly past are quite intimidating and the sight to see in this stage.  The eye candy graphics from the explosions are unique too.

Toxic Waste Area is a unique toxic ocean level with a tough as nails boss fight made of armor.  The snakes coming out of the toxic water is cool too.  Sector Z is generic and forgettable since it lacks combat.  Area 6 contains a memorable disappearing disc-shaped tentacle boss with a giant golden-colored planet in the background.  I admire this stage's appearance.  Venom: Andross Homeworld begins on a lackluster note featuring generic enemy chasing and shooting, but immediately after this part is over the level turns WAY more intense and atmospheric (claustrophobic in particular).  The Andross boss itself is memorable mainly for the intimidating appearance of his first form and less about the second form which involves shooting aimlessly and hoping you hit your target.

Boss fights feel significantly less suspenseful perhaps due to them being easy with predictable weak points for one thing, and also the lack of suspenseful music.  This is why the Super NES version is so much better.  Don't get me wrong guys, I *do* admire this game, but I almost never feel like playing it knowing a better version of Star Fox is out there.