To wit, this game quite fun. Since my game play style tends towards using the analog controller whenever I can, this game seems to be custom made for myself. And of course it is. It's a pretty neat concept having the monkeys (I don't think the manual writer did a lot of research on monkeys since the book uses "baboons," "apes," and " chimps" interchangeably)  escape from the zoo and having your job to chase down and capture them. Nice non violent plot really, one of the very few games that I buy and my girlfriend is willing to play.
And while the game has a nice plot, the programmers also spent a little time on the graphics in the game. Since the PSX is showing its age there is only so much any programmer can do. But the programers did a very good job. The smooth graphics, "large" worlds and a grand variety of scenes make this game a delight to explore (Never mind the obvious use of some of Sony's stock SDK files, usually evident by the "Pa Rappa" look in some areas). Throw in a huge variety of weapons and usable "tools" make this a winning formula indeed. In fact it is likely that after the PSX goes the way of the Atari 7800 that this game will be one of the reasons that die hard fans of the PSX will dust off that gray box (Or blue if they upgrade to the PSX2) and play a few levels. However, I have one major gripe.
It shocks me that many people consider the Ape Escape camera to be nice and well behaved. This camera is one of the most ill-behaved I've come across in a long time. Just what are some people comparing this camera to? Super Mario 64? If that's the case, then that's a hard judge. SM64's camera was pretty bad but at least it was aware of walls and didn't go behind them too often. Ape Escape's camera not only goes behind walls but it goes through them as well! Haven't the programmers at least heard of a "Jelly Cam"? C'Mon, there are numerous examples out there of what to do and what not to do with the camera. Ones with decent (mind you, decent, not perfect) camera's include Spyro 2, MDK 2, and Zelda 64. All of these games had cameras that were somewhat well behaved (although none show the classic "Jelly Cam," A Jelly Cam is a camera that when it goes through a wall turns the wall, or anything else, into a semitransparent entity. You know it's there but at least you can see what's going on on the other side.) AE does not fall into that category. I can't tell you how many times I've run back and forth in a level looking for a way out only to discover the camera wasn't "swinging" in an appropriate direction. Some pundits may tell you that only adds to the difficulty of the game. Someone should remind them of the difference between skilled difficulty and annoying frustration. Never, Never should any one ever lose a life because the camera wasn't doing a good job of showing what is happening around you. "How about blind spots?" Some may ask. What about them? It is very possible to design a game and camera to allow the classic "leap of fate." My gripe lies with the camera refusing to shift at appropriate times so that I can at least survive the darn jump! Or Shifting to an appropriate angle to allow a fair fight against a baddie. All to often I'm getting pummeled by a monkey with a machine gun or rockets simply because the stupid camera doesn't know enough to swing around a column. And using buttons to "fix" the camera's faults is a cheap trick. Sorry Sony, A big company like your self should know better.
This game gets three stars due the rotten camera work. If the programmers spent more time with this crucial element then the game would certainly win five stars. Too bad Sony, the frustration with the camera is simply too high. For those who think the camera works "perfect" play a few more games for comparison.