Final Fantasy VII had huge hype when it came out.  The first Final Fantasy game to be on the Playstation and the first to use the newer graphics the Playstation offered.  I really enjoyed playing the game and thought it very good.  I do not judge games on graphics and thought FF7's was pretty good although sometimes it was frustrating but was very much made up for with the gameplay.

I'm going to go out on a limb here with some of the FF7 lovers and say that this game was extremely overrated.  I agree it's a great game deserves more than one or two stars but I will confess that it seems the creaters of this game were lost a bit.  Upon research I found that yes Final Fantasy VII was not slated for a Playstation release and in fact was for a Super Nintendo, but then switch to the Playstation.  The grpahics were put together rather hastily but in my opinion serve there purpose and work.  The storyline however feels like it was changed around a lot and there seem to be holes all over it.

The gameplay is awsome and the materia system is great and I truly love the summons and there attacks. (although it was repetative watching them over and over during battles with big enemies) The only disappointing thing about this game is it tries to lead us away from the fantasy elements of the previous games.  Yes I agree FF7 is a fantasy RPG but it has strayed from the way in which it's older siblings fared.  My only complaint and this is a big one is that the story just seems to be fragmented.  When playing the game I can see writers changing there minds and new writers coming and going and the script being changed again and again and many forgetting what happened earlier in the story while writing the end.

No matter what others say this game is not the best and definately not the worst RPG out there and is definately not the worst FF game. (come on Mystic Quest wasn't that bad..."dodges tomatos")

It is true this game was highly overated and the gamers that started Final Fantasy with this game hate the older ones only because of the old grpahics and the fact VII was their first.

This game is great and I highly reccomment it.  You will find the storyline to have problems but they quickly fix themselves as this Final Fantasy game is a bit more faster paced than previous ones.(added snowboarding and bike racing games)

Overall I gave this game three stars and four for the fun because I feel it could have been much much better but it's still an awsome game and will always be.

-Cade