I did enjoy this game a bit while I owned it, but I do not at all believe it's the best of the Final Fantasies (that honor belongs to VI and IX, in my opinion), and I certainly don't think it's the best Playstation RPG (that belongs to FFIX).
Now, on the positive side, this game did have an interesting story, pretty good music except for the dreary town songs, and some good development on a few characters (Cloud, Tifa, Red XIII).  The materia system was also quite unique and original.
Unfortunately though, this game also has some major flaws that seem to be generally overlooked.  For one thing, this new sci-fi setting...  Now, don't get me wrong.  It's not just the plain fact that it's sci-fi that bothers me.  I can deal with that.  After all, another cool RPG series I liked, Phantasy Star, was also sci-fi.  What bothers me, though, is that the atmosphere here is so drab and gloomy that it provided no motivation for me to continue on through the game.  Now, this problem was compounded by another major flaw:  Cloud.  He was the most unappealing hero I had ever seen, that is, until Squall Leonhart.
The other problem lies within the materia system.  While it is original, it also causes some trouble.  Mainly, it completely wipes out all the uniqueness and strategy from designing a party.  It doesn't matter who you put together at all.  In fact, there are no real differences at all between the characters except for their weapons and limit-breaks.
I do believe that the best FF game on the PSX was Final Fantasy IX, for a number of reasons, particularly the characters, the gaming system, and the much more inspiring atmosphere and music.  Now, I don't dislike FFVII just because it's different.  I think it's a cool game, but the fact is, it just isn't Final Fantasy.  You just can't take something and remove every familiar feature about it, then slap the label on it and call it a sequel.  It's an entirely different product.
Overall, it's a good game in its own right, but I honestly prefer the original Final Fantasy, FFIV, FFVI, or FFIX.