While this is the only good port to any of the Marvel vs. game prior to MVC2, this game still has a few problems in comparision to just playing a CPS2 ROM.

First off, the sound is god awful.  Everything from this game sounds like it's coming from a small FM Radio with nearly dead batteries from the other end of a long tunnel.  It's that bad.  Not to mention that there are a few sound glitches where some of the sound effects don't even play for a few moments.  So, for example, you periodically won't hear Ryu yell, "Hadoken" for a short period of time.  But the sound doesn't make the game, the controls do.  And that's my next gripe.

Unless you are on an Aracde Stick, you'll have a harder time playing this game then you would on a keyboard.  Not only does this game not support the analog stick, but the control pad isn't very responsive at all.  And no, it's not the controller.  I've played KOF 98 and 99, Street Fighter 3: Double Impact, and Soul Calibur 1 all on the same controller.  And I haven't had nearly as many problems with the controls on those games as I've had here.  Not to mention, you have shoulder buttons for the FP and FK.  In MVC2, you won't mind shoulder buttons because that game has a 4 button layout with FP and FK used almost souly for calling the helpers.  MVC1 still has the 6 button layout as its other Capcom brothers.  Meaning a standard Dreamcast controller isn't very suitable for a fast paced game such as this.  Every nanosecond counts in this game and you can't have sluggish shoulder buttons slowing you down.  Street Fighter 3 and Alpha can get away with it, but not this game.  In short, get a Mad Catz Dreampad or some sort of Aracde Stick if you're going to get this game.

Single player also gets rather dull pretty quickly.  This game is meant for competition as far as I'm concerned.  Casual players will enjoy this game, but the computer is either very easy or very hard and there isn't much middle ground.

On the plus end, the game itself is completely intact from the CPS2 version.  And it even has the added Onslaught Mode after you unlock all the hidden fighters.  It also has a 4 player tag battle mode as well.  And that is probably the main reason to get this game.  I, myself, play 4 player tag battle with MAME on Kaillera all the time and I have a blast.  But for those of you that don't believe in emulation and have 3 friends around, this is just as good.

All in all, this is one of those party games that's good for playing at an Anime/Video Game convention, for instance.  And while most people sing praises about MVC2, MVC1 is a very solid and competitive game.  The characters are quite unbalanced.  But it doesn't seem to hinder the game in the least bit.  Sans the small rooster of characters, this can be considered supieror to MVC2 in certain ways.  Pick it up if you have some friends around.  You'll have a blast.