This was Acclaim's sequel to the horrendous 1998 release of War Zone. And while I will say that Attitude was 5x better than War Zone, I won't say that it didn't feature some of the same flaws that War Zone did.

I'll start with the goods first. There were a hoard of new match types added to the game. And while I won't list them all, I will say that some of them were a Triple Threat, Fatal 4 Way, Fatal 4 Way Elimination, Handicap, Gauntlet, Stable, Battle Royal, I Quit, Last Man Standing, First Blood, Royal Rumble, King of the Ring, Survivor Series, and many more. The variety was overwhelming and was bound to keep players busy and satisfied for the time being when playing.

Another plus to the game was the realistic entrances of the superstars. In War Zone, the entrances only consisted of you seeing the superstars come to the entrance ramp before cutting to the ring. In Attitude, they diligently take time to accurately add a touch of realism to every superstar's entrance. For example, when Undertaker is on his way out, the lights will slowly dim before he makes his entrance. The only thing I don't get is why the entrance way includes steps for them to walk down on. You could also pick from the Raw, Sunday Night Heat, or Custom arena to fight in. This was another cool feature as you could pick the ring skirt, choose the lighting color, the color of the ropes, etc.

War Zone's Challenge Mode was replaced with a Career Mode. The superstar you choose to play as starts off on House Shows, trying to work their way up to Raw, then eventually PPVs and earn challenges for the European, Intercontinental, and WWF Championships.

Perhaps the most frustrating thing about this game is the gameplay. The moves are slow and extremely hard to perform and sometimes don't even work. How slow you ask? Lets just say that when you try to attempt most moves, it gives your opponent enough time to attack you. The gameplay is what makes the game completely unenjoyable. It's too slow, the simplest moves are too generic and easy to perform and get boring easily and the crowd will let you know their disapproval as well as they begin to boo you.

Overall: Attitude is better than War Zone but only in aspects that don't involve gameplay. More options to choose from but the gameplay is probably worse than War Zone where at least in War Zone, most moves were easy to do. I still say that In Your House was the best of the 3 games made from Acclaim. But fortunately this would be their last WWF game they ever made. WWF's next major video game was Smackdown that would be developed by THQ