Nemesis was obviously an expansion of the Mr. X element found in senario B of Resident Evil 2. Upon each encounter with him the screen flashes white, where you must make a choice between two options of how Jill will handle the situation. For example, you get to choose between hiding in a chest or running out the door. The game takes place mostly in the streets of Raccoon city and there are more zombies. A quick turn around 180 degree move was implemented whick makes running away easier. Also, you only can only play as Jill as the main character. The graphics are better than RE2's but the theme is not as dark which takes away from the mood.

The controls and camera angles are the same as the games before it, but what drags this game down is the weak story and regenerating zombies. Things have gotten a bit cheesy this time around, I can't really tell what it is but it feels like a washed up version of RE. It's like zombies are now common place and the novelty of the idea was wearing off at the time RE3 came out. It's the story that doesn't bring much to the table that really makes the game feel dull. Combine that with the wack controls, the dated ink ribbon save system, and the limited inventory space, and what you get is the negative aspects of the Resident Evil series without the soul/personality.

The best feature is the Nemesis element but that even at times gets annoying. The choice system sometimes punishes you for logical choices where an option seems like you'll be able to run away and the other indicates that you want to stay and fight but the outcome is actually the opposite. It's like those 'choose your own adventure' games where you make an innocent choice and jump to the given page, only to find you got gang raped by baboons... or something like that.

Because the streets are more open there are a lot of dead ends and back tracking, and what pissed me off was that zombies would regenerate for no reason, or maybe for the reason to show 'you can never clear out a whole city of zombies'. Whatever. Because the story is pretty mediocre I didn't get much satisfaction from beating the game aside from finally being able to put it down. That was back then. Now with the recent play through taking turns with my brother, we died a stupid death and immediately decided "forget this game". Technically it's not broken, it's just the overall feeling of indifference that gave no incentive to soldier on. Luckily Capcom was able to rebound with Code Veronica. 3 Stars.