This review is directed more towards the gamer that is looking to get into older systems, because I do get the feeling that most (not all) of the love that the Dreamcast gets comes from people that owned one from the get go.  I have been a gamer since the Colecovision/Atari days, and I do still very much appreciate good old fashioned games, but something tells me that many (again, not all) people that have grown too accustomed to 2 anologue sticks will have a hard time going back to 1 stick for 3D games.  Personally, PSone 3D games haven't aged well with me either, and have preferred the Sega Genesis for my old school kick.

The Dreamcast does offer a decent set of adventure and survival horror games, but is rather sparse in RPGs and platformers - If you love RPGs (and little else), then this system is not for you.  There are a couple of really good ones (Skies of Arcadia, Grandia 2), however, they are also offered on other systems, which might also be of interest.  The Dreamcast also doesn't offer much for the FPS lovers that have gotten into the genre after the PS2 and original XBOX came out.  Yes, there are a few (Unreal Tournament, Quake, Half Life), but most that love 2 sticks with their FPSs will probably squirm with 1 stick.

Now, where the Dreamcast's library really shines is 2D fighters and space shooters.  If you absolutely love either, then the Dreamcast is pure heaven, and buying one is practically a no brainer.  Actually, you can throw 3D fighters in there too since games like the original Soul Calibur and the Power Stone series are still incredibly fun.  Sports games are another strong suit for the library if you don't mind playing with outdated rosters (Sega really gave EA a run for their money).

Sega also had a knack for releasing some quirk that was easy to fall in love with - Games like Chu Chu Rocket and Ooga Booga are still  very fun multi-player games.  Unfortunately, some of that good quirk (Samba de Amigo, Seaman) are best used with accessories that have gotten rather expensive and tough to come by (although, I'm sure collectors won't mind at all).

In the Dreamcast's favor is that it has gotten cheap.  Although some of the games that makes the system a worthwhile purchase have gotten expensive, there are still some moderately priced options that are totally decent for those with a passing curiosity for the system.

I do view this as a very niche system, and I don't think that it will appeal to everyone.  Again, this review is geared more towards people that never grew up with (or owned) a Dreamcast.  I do think that ANY gamer could probably have some fun with this system, but I also think that many of the passerbys that picked one up years later will wonder what all the fuss was about.  Sure, it was revolutionary in it's heyday, but that doesn't mean much to people that are in love with their PS3s, Wiis, and 360s (or people that simply skipped the Dreamcast on their way to a PS2, Gamecube, or Xbox).

If you're thinking about picking up a Dreamcast, I would suggest doing a little homework to make sure that the library suits your tastes.  Although, it is not expensive, you might end up spending a bit on games just to find out that you're really not that into it.