Star Ocean is an amazing game. However don't let the commercials it had fool you it is very linear in plot. The characters don't have very much  personality. But it has many interesting and unique points to it. It does  have many endings, but the ending is not a movie and it is not chosen as  much by actions taken that have a real effect on the plot as. It is by  little things and how much character kill monsters with each other and how  they treat each other that actually chooses your ending.
As far as game  play it a lot better then average. It has many unique points to it. There  is a skill system for creating items from other things. Also there is a  weird real time combat system where you can walk around up down left and  right to dodge but when you attack you just walk up to the enemy. However  the characters are not balanced the two main characters well probably never  leave your party being the most powerful. The voices have been translated  which is something I loved but I was not crazy about the music.
As far as  plot I do love the plot. You are either Claude from space who accidentally  gets teleported to a planet where he meets Rene and then is accused of  being someone they call the hero of light. Or you are Rene the person who's  past is a bit mysterious for a while who meets Claude when he is sent to  the planet. Which ever character you are the game well move in the same  direction though and be 90% the same so don't worry to hard over which  character.
The graphics are nice. Most of the character pictures look  good except for the 3 eyed characters who don't look very well done. The  enemies normally don't look very good but the background they are in looks  nice even though graphics were not this games strong point.
And finally  as far as length of time it can stay interesting it can stay around for a  long time. As an RPG after you beat it there isn't anything left to do with  it. It does last a while though. It should take you around a week to beat  if you have a lot of spare time and play it more then 4 hours a  day.
Overall I recommend buying Star Ocean but there are other games you  may want to get first.