This game is broken down into three components. There is the adventure mode that is quite subpar, minigames that are mediocre, and finally the stages that are very fun to play. Once you clear a stage or minigame on the adventure mode, it unlocks and you may just play it by itself from the main menu when the game boots up. You may play as 6 different characters, all with their own unique stories, stages, and minigames. I thought this was a brilliant implementation of the game. Although, admittedly the Sonic and Tails stages are way more fun the the stages for Big the Cat, Knuckles, or the robot. The Amy stages are somewhere in the middle.

The controls are somewhat frustrating at times, particularly in the adventure mode. The NPC humans in the adventure mode look downright like stick figures graphically, and stand there like manequins unless you knock into them. Then they flinch for a moment and go right back to their original position.

The adventure mode plays like an exploration game. You must figure out what to do to get to the next cutscene, minigame, or stage. You must find the object or area that will take you to it. This is a rather mundane and boring, sometimes frustrating, part of the game.

Sometimes the camera angles in this game make it so you can not see your character or get any sense of direction. Again, this is most often in the adventure mode.

The cutscenes in the adventure mode are well presented and timed. The fade from the adventure mode to the cutscenes is well paced. The graphics look great, and soundtrack well performed.

I highly recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of the sonic characters, as you can play and develop so many of them. If you like action or 3D platformer type games, you will probably enjoy this game as well.

This game is definitely worth a play though to see if you like it. I did, I own it, have beaten the game with several of the characters, and still enjoy playing it to this day. However, this game is hardly the best the Dreamcast has to offer.