First off, why do top designers make mistakes like  building a game that's so dark I can't see the gamma controls in options? Believe it or not, they used a dark blue control for the gamma and the page is black. The other  controls on the page are light green. This little artistic flourish sent me  on a three day journey of frustration to play the game and get the  brightness up. Navy on black is idiotic. Too many designers use tiny  letters and obscure illegible fonts for games. We don't all have 21 inch  monitors you know. Please keep an eye on the fools you hire to deal with  the simple things like choosing fonts and background colors. Now on to  other issues.
The story is intriguing. The opening music was great and  got me interested inspite of the rather choppy and low quality cut scenes.  What happens to that great opening music later? It turns into action,  disco, buttkickin game music that I hate.
Training could be more  involved. I needed to play over and over to get to any proficiency with the  many controls and seemingly endless information kiosks. I don't really play  games because I want to read so why not just give all the information on  the mfd or pfd device in voice format instead of having us read all this  drivel? Better yet, build a training  mission with us actually having a  stress free environment to really work on skills and become familiar with  controls. Hey! Here's an idea. You know those training missions I fly off  on, but I really don't go I just watch the movie? (I wonder if my ugly  woman is still waiting for me?) Why not really send me on that mission to  learn? WHAT A THOUGHT!
Why can't I choose a weapon or get some health  when I'm in user mode? The action doesn't pause and the monsters just keep  pounding away and sneaking up which I just find stressful. I know you're  trying to put me in the situation, but I like to pause and think. You can  forget that in this game.
Here's another annoyance. You go to this  vending machine to buy bullets and health and soda or whatever and first  you have to select what you want on this complicated interface after you  figure out what it costs from the tiny numbers buried off on the side.  That's already annoying, but then you have to pick the items up  individually and then you have to go to user mode and "USE" them.  Just forget it if you're bein attacked and most likely you will be. A  possible reason for all this difficulty is that you should learn to turn  off the security before trying to purchase anything. Once again, this is  annoying to me.
Is this a new genre? Action, adventure, role playing?  Sort of. I think of it as an action adventure with a tedious learning curve  and a lot of dull reading. It's a boring second year college course. The  psionics have me interested, the inability to use guns is frustrating at  first and there's too many monsters to deal with wrench style.
The  ghosts are great. I didn't have any kind of religious moment or anything  like I've read some people describe, but then I knew the ghosts were there  because I'd read the review beforehand and now, so have you. The monsters  or ex crew or whatever they are, are scary, but they are also blurry and  unlike some people, this game didn't really scare me to death and make me  wary when I'm alone or anything like that.
There are a lot of good games  out right now and I'm having a hard time devoting much time to this time  demanding game. I do appreciate the innovation involved in this game, but I  also loathe the geeky qualites of unnecessary complication. Then again,  without all the skills, this would be just like half life or doom or  whatever. Doom with ghosts.