Well, this is a bit tricky. Ya see, as far as light gun shooters go this is by far the best I've ever seen on any system, at any time. On the other hand, some things are just plain awful. Well, lets start with the good.
The graphics are just plain jaw dropping. The backgrounds and environments are a little simple, but the zombies and the way they react to being shot is insane. The first time I saw this game I couldn't believe me eyes. The sheer amount of enemies, the fast pace, the gruesome look. You won't really notice the bad when you're looking through the sight of a gun blasting down anything that moves trying to stay alive.
The way zombies react to being shot is amazing. You'll have to pump several rounds into the body to kill one, usually blasting a hole clean through them. Even a well placed headshot may not do the trick though, as some zombies will keep coming at you even with half their face blown clean off. Others are armored and armed to the teeth and know how to use tools for protection. It makes it quite interesting.
So far as zombie graphics and good shooting fun go, this game is simply unmatched. Story wise however, it fails so hard it hurts. The script and voice acting is just atrocious. One of the worse in video game history. I don't know if it's meant to be some kinda B movie joke, but it's not funny. It's just, plain, awful. Thankfully you can skip it all and save yourself the headache.
Sadly you can beat it in a single 30 minute sitting or so, but these games are never really all that long. A training mode adds some length, but that doesn't last long before it just gets dull. This isn't a deep game, this isn't genre busting... it's just a good and fun ol' fashion shoot em up with some gruesomely cool gore. I still play it whenever I'm in the mood for something different, and for the most part it's still a lot of fun. That's a lot of replay value. If you can still find it, it's real cheap these days. Great game to play with friends and after Trigun marathons. Well worth the sub $$$ range.
- Rirath_com