Sim Theme Park/Theme Park World are part of what I like to think of as "the Bullfrog trilogy". These three games (this one, "Populous: The Beginning" and "Dungeon Keeper 2", all from British company Bullfrog) all use a similar (spectacular) graphics engine and all fall roughly into the "real-time strategy" category. There is a marvellous aesthetic sense which pervades each of them.

In STP/TPW, a sequel to 1994's "Theme Park", you lay down paths and theme park attractions, then open your gates to an ever-growing throng of youngsters eager to buy your burgers and fries right before going on a loop-the-loop 100mph roller coaster. (Vomit figures heavily into your equations.)

Rather oddly for a theme park sim (though absolutely typical for RTS) you hire researchers who research advanced rides for you--not to mention advanced concepts like "the gift shop" or "the restaurant". With the right balance of attractions and staff and financial savvy you can change your! park from a travelling-carny level experience to a nigh-DisneyWorld extravagazna.

Well, sort of. Each of the four parks has a specific theme and must stay within that theme. No Disneyland style division (Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, etc.) in a single park. Understandable given the strain that would put on the hardware--but unfortunate.

Like the other games in the Bullfrog trilogy, there is considerable "well, that's cool" factor. And Bullfrog created a "downloadable ride" patch which theoretically could give the product some real legs.

But there is even less actual =game= here than in the other two. And after you finish your first park, you'll find that you're playing the exact same game on your second park. And third. Every park has the same number and type of rides, sideshows, refreshment stands and miscellaneous objects.

Playing is not unlike eating a huge cone of cotton candy: Sweet, but not particularly satisfying.

It's also a good exa! mple of a product at cross-purposes with itself. There's considerable "toy" value in the game: It's a pleasure to build your park. Typical of Bullfrog games, the interface is clean, simple and rewarding. Experiencing the game from the first person is a real treat. But.

Every moment you take to smell the 50-ft. high artificial roses (Wonderland park) is a moment where something is going wrong in your park. This is where the "gameplay" comes in, unfortunately.

When you have grown your park to a good size, you'll be stopping whatever you're doing every minute or so to schedule repairs. Now, there's a simple rule: You don't run rides in the red, so you check your maintenance report and shut-down any rides that are going from yellow to red.

Thing is, it's so mechanical, it would've been easier to just set a bar for the point at which the mechanics would go repair things. They could shut the rides down when they got there. (The way it works now is you have to s! hut the ride down and wait for a mechanic to show up, or drop one there.)

This is true of the rest of the staff, too. They wander around their patrol areas, one presumes, because they don't have access to your big park map showing all the problem spots. And you can't stagger their break/work times, so they can all be waiting for an opening in the staff break-room while your park goes to heck.

If Bullfrog had taken that out, though, there wouldn't have been much left to do except adjust the amount of fries on the salt. And, typical of the implementation of "business simulation", you have to adjust each stand individually as you build it (or flip back to a stand that has the settings you want and click the global setting button).

There's the cross-purpose: Trying to make a business simulation out of it. Building a park at the micro-level is fun--managing it at that level is a chore.

If they had gone the other way with the business simulation and allo! wed you to handle things like promotions, suppliers, unions, and lawyers, one of your pleasures could have been taking a break from it all to go to the park. (But that wouldn't really fit neatly into the categories that all games Must Now Belong.)

Anyway, it's hard to actually dislike such a good-natured, easy-to-play game and there's a lot of fun here despite the flaws. Hence, three stars.