Most critics insist that Half-Life is the best game ever, but I must disagree.  I will say that it has perhaps the best gameplay of any shooter, but it does have its drawbacks.
One of the best traits of half-life is that although it has much the same gameplay as any other shooter, it  seems to have done it exceptionally well.  Like most shooters you walk, run, climb, jump, crawl, and shoot, of course, but in Half-life it's so utterly engaging.  I'm not sure why, but I believe the great gameplay is a result of the intuitive nature of the puzzles and combat.  You can look around and say: "Ah ha!  That's the way."  And in most cases you are right giving you a satisfying feeling of knowing that you used your brain well.  However, as another reviewer noted, in some cases you get nailed with a "gotcha," you die, and it's time to gawk at the ol' loading screen.  Nevertheless, it's not that hard after you play the game for a while, and who doesn't want a challenge?
The weapons are average and include the standard machine gun, shotgun, and pistols along with grenades and other weapons you pick up along the way.  You can also use guns set on turrets.  All your weapons pack a punch, and you shouldn't be dissatisfied with any of them.
Enemies include monsters and "grunts."  They're decent looking, and the grunts have good AI.  Some of the "boss" monsters need to be killed with special weapons that you fire from pressing a button on a wall.  It's very satisfying to see one of the big monsters finally go down.
The sound is exceptional except for the voices of the NPCs.  I'm not sure why their voices are distorted.  It might be a bug.
Speaking of bugs, this edition of Half-life has a bug that causes you to stick to some of the lifts which can be very annoying.  Sierra should have fixed this bug by now.  I used cheat codes to get around this problem, however.
As for cheat codes, use them!  As difficult as this game can be, you can finish it using these codes, but try the game without them at first, of course.
What really drags this game down is the graphics.  Although they aren't poor, they aren't that great either.  In some of the levels the design is so plain and smooth I feel like I'm in a tin can.  This problem gets in the way of Half-Life being a truly great game.
To sum it up, I'd say Half-Life is a good, solid shooter.  It can be so absorbing, but it won't wow you either.  And such an opinion will get me in trouble with all those rabid Half-Life fans, no doubt!