To put it bluntly, Breath of Fire III is intolerably dull. The battle engine has few innovations, the graphics are standard 2D cutesy sprites on  a rather featureless 3D background, and the plot is riddled with  problems.
Sure, in combat you can turn into eleven different kinds of  dragons, but so what!  At no point in the game are you actually required to  do so. In fact, you can go through the game with no need of a sinle  transformation. Experimenting with different dragon genes (necessary to  discover the above-mentioned dragon types) is tedious and wastes your MP.  In fact, transforming into a dragon wastes so much of your magic, that it  sort of invalidates any strategy.
The random battles are copious,  considering the fact that for most of the game you fight with no purpose in  mind. Thankfully, most enemies have a trick or two up their sleeve that you  can learn and perform yourself (most of the ones you can learn are  useless). Combat in this game just isn't fun, probably because it has  nothing to do with the plot.
The plot is surprisingly bare and devoid of  livelihood. Just as an example, before you meet the final boss at the end  of the game, you will have no idea that she is there. Neither will you know  for sure why exactly you are fighting her.
The plot has a lot of  interesting parts that are left unexplained. Some of the human interactions  seem realistic, but all of the realism is drained away by the fifth time  you are beaten up and kidnapped by the same pair of bandits.
The  soundtrack features several off-beat tunes, but otherwise is bleak. You'll  spend most of your game-time listening to no more than five tunes.
There  are also a few small things that are sure to irritate. Specific characters  are necessary to perform certain tasks (only the walking onion character  can break the glass seal on an emergency door), but switching characters in  your party is a long and tedious task. Sometimes it takes several seconds  to quit certain conversations, and sometimes there is lag between character  actions in combat.
I've never played the other installments in the Breath  of Fire series, so I cannot be sure of their quality. However, if they are  on the same level as this tepid piece of software, they desperately lack  appeal.