I must say that I enjoyed Homeworld... for a while.  I did not, in all honesty, finish the game because I felt it degenerated into a pure slugfest, no tactics or strategy involved (for the most part).  The short  summary is that Homeworld is a fairly typical harvest resources, build  forces, kill the enemy sort of game.  A couple frills with the attempted 3D  interface and the salvage capabilities, but nothing to write home about.  If you want real-time strategy, there are better choices out  there.
First, though the game is, in theory, 3D, very little is actually  done in 3D, and the interface for trying to do so is difficult to manage.  Almost the entire game takes place in effectively one plane (for the core  game, there are a couple of exceptions).  So, while the 3D idea is neat,  very little is done to develop and exploit it. Second, very little strategy  seems to be involved in the game.  The interface is a little too clunky and  micro-manage centric (to use any units with intelligence, YOU must be in  direct control of them) to allow for grand tactics and strategies, and  there is a sad emphasis on the captial ships.  To a large degree, you can  do entirely without fighter class ships (once you reach a certain tech  level). Obviously, game designers have yet to notice that there are often  very good reasons for having smaller stuff on the scene.  The formations  attempt to bring some semblance of order to the game, but those same  formations rapidly disappear in actual combat, making them fairly  pointless. Third, unit intelligence is miserable.  This is not a problem  liited to Homeworld, but seems to be endemic to the strategy genre.  Fight  to the death, you cannot establish a target priority intelligence. you  cannot setup a series of orders (shoot your designated target unless  something juicier or more deadly appears, run to a certain staging area if  you are damaged, guard this ship, but do not leave it's immediate vicinity,  etc.).
On the plus side, the game is pretty smooth.  The views are great,  and the perspective control is very useful (though a camera angle change  could be nice, ie, view out from a unit's perspective, rather than always  looking at a particular unit or view of any area, rather than a unit).  The  repair/refuel and docking capability is cool, as is the ability to jump  around the map (mp only though). Sadly, I don't think the game lived up to  its hype.