Naturally others will have a different experience of this game depending upon their proficiency at aircraft sims and the game controllers used by their system. This is merely my experience with this particular game. The concept is great, particularly for WWII buffs like myself. Graphically the game is superb, no complaints there. I do however have major trouble with the handling capabilities of all the aircraft used, save for the Spitfire Mark IX. This is the only aircraft which seems to be able to keep its nose level long enough for me to get is decent shots at another aircraft. Most of the other planes fly like stuffed pigs and no matter how often I hit the "Bank/Yaw Center" key the moment I make a slight correction the nose buffets wildly. Maybe I am not doing something right but reading the manual and using the tutorial does not give any clues at to what I can do to alleviate this game spoiling effect. So basically I am limited to flying the Spit which doesn't bother me too much as I prefer the RAF. Unfortunately as most seem to feel the Combat Campaigns and Missions are lacklustre, particularly for the RAF. Some are just plain goofy. Too many missions involve attacking ground targets, which are difficult and dangerous to hit (slamming into the turf or surf is a constant hazzard). I just get the feeling that the game has been overprogrammed to include spoilers that reduce the handling capabilities of the aircraft and if I have this trouble playing at the easiest/slowest level then obviously the designers don't know the meaning of the word ROOKIE. Everyone has to start somewhere I just don't think this game offers the novice the support necessary to acquire the gaming skills needed to operate it. I have tried the downloads for new missions and aircraft but these are just sitting on my hard drive like Junkers on the tarmac. There is no use in offering them if they don't load themselves. If these files need to be modified to make them run then there is no use in offering them to any but the advanced computer buff. I (and no doubt most computer users) wouldn't know how to configure these files even if Microsoft was kind enough to walk me through it. But here's the beef, why didn't they include these features before releasing the game? Microsoft has left it up to the gaming community to modify their software for them. I give them poor marks in the customer service department. So for me the game is more the Spitfire Flight Simulator which doesn't make me unhappy but clips my wings a little.