This game is very much worth buying at its listed price.  This game has so much potential, but is somewat awkward and buggy in its interface.  Let me give you some examples:
1. Real time combat:  As mentioned in the editorial review, this is extremely problematic and awkward.  Because it is based on a 3/4 view, you lose sight of some of your units, and often it seems they do not immediately respond to your commands.  Units end up in a scrum at the center of the screen, and don't readily disengage or advance.  This is dissapointing considering "Lords of the Realm" which was not perfect either, had a much cleaner interface, and it is an older game.  Lords of Magic would have been a much better game if the battle view was adjustable, and the speed of combat as well.  If the units were more "Diablo" sized, or somewhere in between, it would have been a vast improvment. Also in ths same area, when entering dungeons and the like, your party can randomly turn up in strange places on the battle scape map, e.g. your sorceress is on the other side of the map all by herself, next to a group of trolls, when all her protection is on the other side separated by a physical barrier like water.  This can mean certain death for a character you have spent much time developing, and makes no sense.  If your party goes in as a unit they should appear that way on the battlescape.  This is just poor design.
2. Hero Status bars:  On the "overland" view, your heros have a pop up status card, showing their items, level, etc.  These are so sparse that once you gain multiple magical items you have to create new heros just to have someone to off-load the items to in order to take an inventory of your items.  When you have many parties on the board, this is maddening!
3.  Overland spells:  There is no feedback on overland spells (spells you cast while in the "world view").  You have no way of telling whether they worked, or what the affect was.  ALso there are some spells that seem to not work at all, like transporting a magical item via magical means.
4. Fortesses:  These are far to weak, and are awkward to defend.  If any of you have played Lords of the Realm you know that castles are easily defended. Not in this game.  There is no ability for your archers/javeliners to man the walls of the castle.  You can direct them to that area, but often they just stand there or run around.  They also gain no advantage from the height of the walls or the cover provided thereby.  You just end up with a scrum at the front gate with everyone bunched together like Mattel vibrating football.
This game is worth playing just to be able to use Balkoth after you complete it.  The spells that "Death" can cast are really cool.  Overall, I recommend this game at it's current listed price.  It has some beautiful graffics, interesting story, and combines party based roll playing with RTS and turn based strategy.  With some conceptual changes, this could be the greatest game ever.