Toy Story 2 for the PC was one of the first video games I ever played, and one I grew up with and loved as a kid. Lacking a decent PC, I chose to pick up the PS version instead for nostalgia's sake, and in most regards I see relatively little difference between the two versions. Toy Story 2 is a 3D platformer game in which you play as Buzz Lightyear as he sets out to rescue Woody in the events of the movie, and more or less runs parallel to the events of the film, visiting familiar venues like Andy's House and Al's Toy Barn while introducing some new locales such as Al's Space Land and Andy's neighborhood. Platforming mechanics are solid if not as fluid as I remembered them, combined with decent graphics for the Playstation, and gameplay is varied with the gradual addition of new environmental challenges and powerups that allow for new means of exploration and combat. Although only comprised of 10 levels and 5 discrete boss, the levels are fairly substantial, and new powerups encourage you to revisit previous areas to find secrets you missed. Nonetheless, the game will start to get a bit repetitive by the finals levels while rarely offering any decent challenge; the level bosses and minibosses in particular are some of the easiest I have seen in any game to date, usually involving blasting away with your laser in their general direction while mashing the spin attack to deflect attacks, and are almost always defeated within a minute or two. Emperor Zurg in particular was so laughably easy compared to my original memories that I will never view him the same if I rewatch the film.

The main problem with the game, one which chronically ruins the enjoyment, is the terrible camera mechanics. Rather than locking the camera behind Buzz rigidly or using the right directional pad to control it freely, the game either keeps the camera in place and then realigns to follow Buzz a couple seconds after he stops moving or allows control through the shoulder buttons. Neither option allows for vertical adjustment, making platforming needlessly challenging and leading to a lot of frustrating falls. Both options work poorly in practice, as the active camera cannot adjust on the move as you are battling faster enemies and the passive camera moves far too slowly to be useful, and in both cases the camera routinely gets hung up on terrain or decides to suddenly change it movement if Buzz turns in certain ways.

If you are a fan of Toy Story or have a kid that is, and are a relatively casual gamer, then this is a game for you. If you or your kid are a more serious gamer though, then it will be hard to enjoy the game's charm in light of its gameplay flaws.