Baldurs Gate is an entertaining game, but a great one?  No way.  It has too many major flaws to be a great game.
1.  The AI of the characters that you control is quite possibly the worst AI in the history of computer games.  The characters can't move more than an inch on the screen without getting out of the marching order.  The path making functions for the characters to go from point A to point B is pathetic!!!  Sometimes characters will wander around the screen aimlessly, or get stuck in a corner when you need them somewhere.  This tends to get your characters severely injured or killed.  It is a major annoyance.  This game is designed to run in real-time, with the ability to pause, but because of the terrible AI, you find yourself pausing the game every two seconds to micromanage your characters.  So much for real-time combat.  Turn-based would have been better.
2.  This game has scores of encounters that swiftly slaughter your party with no chance whatsoever of you surviving the first encounter.  The only way to get past these points is to reload your previous save game, which you will find yourself doing more than a thousand times.  After you reload, you cast a bunch of spells to make your characters more powerful, and redo the encounter.  After trying enough times, you win.  What is the problem with that, you ask?  It is pointless to use your wits to better prepare yourself for the unexpected, because the unexpected will easily wipe you out, and you can then reload anyway.  It's almost like "cheating".  Where's the challenge in that?
3.  The game is pretty stingy with experience points.  50-60 hours of gameplay only moves you up about 5 or 6 levels.
4.  The inventory system gets annoying.  Not enough slots, and a gemstone takes up as much space as a suit of armor. (Supposedly, this has been taken care of in BG2).
On the upside, the combat is fun when things go your way, especially the visual and sound effects created by the spells (I always wanted to know what an exploding fireball looks like).  Also, I thought that the plot of the game was very good.  The game has a lot of quests and sidequests, which make it nicely nonlinear.
Baldurs Gate is a fun game, but it's too tedious to be a great one.