I used to own this game but after I beat it and played the multiplayer modes with some friends, I sold it to get some money. It made its debut on the Nintendo 64 back in 1998. Though its take on modern warfare was based on a battle between tan plastic soldiers and green plastic soldiers (with a funny background story), Army Men: Sarge's Heroes was a Doom/Duke Nukem clone that had its moments but ended up being a mediocre gaming experience.

In this game, you control Sarge, leader of the green plastic army battling against the tan plastic army and its leader, Plastro. Plastro wants to take over the world and kidnaps one of Sarge's friends, luring him and his army into combat spilling out into human world stages. So yes you'll embark on a tour of various human backdrops, overcoming the enemy tan army and obstacles. Everything builds up to the final stage where you face off against Plastro in a bathroom, complete with working toilet and bath tub.

The game allows up to customize your control setup and after each completed stage, it will prompt you to save. Doing so will keep your progress as the stages are pretty long. Since it's a army game, you use all kinds of standard weapons: machine guns, grenades, rocket launchers, sniper rifles, etc. If you take damage, pick up health kits scattered throughout the stages. But if you take too much damage, you'll die and will have to start the stage over again. When you want to take a break from the story mode, you can hit the multi player mode with 3 friends and shoot it out.

The PROS: You can see the charm of two dueling plastic armies fighting it out in real world stages just like little boys who grew up playing with plastic army soldiers and this game pretty much captures it well. The cutscenes detail what's happening so it's easy to get into. The sounds and effects are standard in an army combat game. It will keep you busy and the multi player modes are fun to play with your friends as all of the weapons from the story mode are available to use. The game takes advantage of the expansion RAM pack to pump out more effects. It's not required so it's a matter of whether you have it or not.

The CONS: The graphics are pretty damn ugly by today's standards and back then, it barely cut it. There were other games that pumped out better graphics so get ready to see pix-elation, glitches and the occasional hit/miss detection of weapons. The expansion RAM pack, while somewhat bumps up the resolution, isn't used to its full potential as there is little difference from using it and not using it. Those looking for a challenge will find it here but in the way of not seeing enemy fire, jumping off or falling off from high ledges mean certain death and dealing with the somewhat stiff, robotic feeling controls of your character. Also, the camera sometimes gets a little wonky so you have to always make sure its in your line of vision. Once you're done with the story mode, that's it...no bonus content or unlocking of extra features at all. At least, the multi player mode adds some re playability.

While it's fun to play for awhile, there were better shooters available at that time for the N64. The plastic army theme set atop in the human world is pretty cool so there is some fun to be had with this game. But that fun doesn't last long and you may be frustrated with its lack of polished graphics, uneven game play and controls that take some getting used to. Get it cheap if you must, but you'd be better off with Army Men titles that were released later on in the N64's lifespan.