This is basically a point-and-click game with various puzzles to figure out; even the plotting itself is a puzzle to be put together to progress.  That is where my primary complaint with the game comes into full bloom.  The character(s) you control always move at a slow walk(there really isn't anything to run away from) and this is so annoying, especially if you have to walk from one side of an area(town, village, etc.) to another just to exchange information or gather an item only to return to the previous location.  One area made me laugh at one point because I had to once more "walk!" through an entire Aztec village just to gather the lineage information for six fallen warriors.  I broke out my pen and paper and subsequently got my virtual excercise.  But that is not the only moment in this game that I threw my hands in the air.  Another is in a small town.  The character(s) are able to pick up and use items they find in rooms, along the way, etc.  I am going to ruin this part of the game because it was utterly ridiculous.  I was "walking!" all over town clicking in vain, trying desperately to find any sort of an answer to the state of limbo I was in, when I suddenly picked up a rock.  A rock!  There are rocks all over that bloody town!  However, there is a lot here worth mentioning in glowing terms.  The places are all interesting and filled with unnerving characters.  There are many blood-filled chambers with defiled remains and maniacal behavior from the gruesome denizens that inhabit this game. There are multiple characters to be controlled, even if, in the end, they are essentially one character battling with his dementia.  That plot-line is revealed at the start of the game, so don't be mad at me for unveiling it now.  The mechanisms that have to be deciphered or puzzled over are all excellent as far as graphics and level of difficulty.  They are not so hard as to cause violent head-shaking, yet not so easy as to allow any random clicking to unravel them.  Overall, for a decent price, I can see many enjoying this game and "walking!" through the various areas patiently looking for clues...and "rocks!"  If you have a lot of time to burn then this is your game.  The fact that you can save the game at any point is also a large plus.  Take it easy.