Okay, after reading all of these crazy awesome reviews of this game, and being a huge fan of Silent Hill 2, I bought this game from here for $40.  And boy, was I disappointed.  Lets list the good and the bad

Pros:

Impressive graphics, considering it's a playstation 1 game

Great Music by Akira Yamaoka

Amazing Camera angles (especially during the opening run down the hallway type thing)

Fun to play

Good atmosphere.

Cons:
Not fun at all in the daytime, so you have to wait until night to enjoy it at it's fullest

The atmosphere is NOT backed up WHATSOEVER!!  This was my biggest gripe about the game!  Stuff like resident evil and dino crisis have less of a crazy atmosphere, but what atmosphere they do have is backed up by the sudden and unexpected appearance of enemies, and the extreme difficulty of killing the enemies.  Plus, with a lack of ammo, you're usually panicking.  Silent Hill has great atmosphere, but plenty enough ammo to kill the generally weak monsters that are found throughout the levels, and most of them are slow and don't do much damage to you, therefore they don't pose much of a threat.  Silent Hill 2 had Pyramid Head, and at some points I actually was too scared to continue on with the game on the fear that he might show up and slaughter me.  Silent Hill has absolutely nothing to back up this atmosphere, and if you can get past the disturbing look of things, and realise that there is nothing making the scary noises, you're just walking around a deserted area that has the lights out, some monsters, and creepy music.  What's so scary about that?  Nothing.  And when there are an abundance of enemies, it's not scary, it's just annoying, because if you can't pick them off one by one then you're overwhelmed and you die.

Like I said above, absence of enemies makes the game far too easy, but too many enemies makes the game too hard.

They should have had your character have crashed on the outskirts of town and had you walk to town in the middle of the night.  That would have been scarier, and better than just appearing in the town.

The alternate dimension is overused.  This problem was fixed in silent hill 2 though, and was executed perfectly

After my list of the good and the bad, you tell me what you think.  I wasn't scared playing this game (maybe made nervous a few times, but never terrified like I was playing the sequel).  It's definately a good game, but terribly overrated, and you can tell it's their first effort at the genre.

In all, being the silent hill fan I am (I own the first 2 games and origins, have seen the movie(which sucked, btw), and plan on buying the third and fourth titles when I have the money) I'm glad I bought this game, but It's not as good as the hype leads you to believe.