Hype?  What hype?  I didn't even know about this game until I downloaded the demo!  I haven't been exposed to "The Hype," so my review is going to be completely unbaised.  So, what do I think of this game?
In  many aspects, simply vanilla.
I don't care what engine a 3D game use, as  long as I enjoy the game.  Just as the realistic gore and fun seperated  Soldier of Fortune from the rest, Daikatana's storyline set it apart.  Plus, in Daikatana, you can "level-up" and alter your stats as  you kill more enemies.  You can increase your weaon's damage, speed, your  jumping height, maximum health, and your running speed.
The weapons are  innovative, to say the least, with 6 unique weapons in each of the four  episodes. along with the Daikatana itself.  When you use the Daikatana at  first, it's a slow as crap.  But as you kill more enemies with it, the  sword becomes more powerful, until it reaches level 5, at which point a  flick of the wrist can kill anything.  The downside to this is that YOU  don't get level-ups.  Oh well, you've got to break a few eggs to make an  omelette, I guess.
Also, the locales are especially unique.  You travel  through four time periods, and in each one, there is unique architecture  that really sets the mood of the level, from the icy lands of 560 A.D.  Norway to the temples of ancient Rome. Unfortunately, those are the ONLY  things that set Daikatana apart.  The rest of the game is the usual  "find key/switch/artifact, open a door, repeat" formula.
Now,  for the BAD part of the review - the AI!  In the game, you'll get two  sidekicks that help you.  A few levels later though, you'll want to call  them "groinkicks," because they will impede your progress so much  that you'll want to give them just that!  The sidekicks get in the way of  your aim, they shoot YOU when you get in THEIR aim, they fall off ledges to  their deaths, and they'll go after an enemy, even if they have no weapons!  And guess what?  If they die, so do you!  Most of the time, you'll order  them to stay put and finish the level yourself.  And the enemies?  They're  cannon fodder.  No brains at all.  With the exception of the civilians, all  they do is rush you.  Believe it or not, the smartest enemies are...the  doors!  I'd swear that they have the minds of sadistic killers!  They just  LOVE to ambush hapless heros - they stay open until either you or a  sidekick walks through the doorway, and then they suddenly close, crushing  all that are in the way!  Enemies know well enough to avoid them, so I  guess in a certain respect, they ARE smart!
Overall, as I mentioned  before, Daikatana is vanilla.  There are new innovations, but when you get  down to the gameplay, it's more of the same thing.