I bought this game souly on the fact that everyone hereon amazon has praised it as being a fabulous game.

Well, it's all right, but it needed a lot more to keep you interested after a while. I burst out laughing during my first race when I crashed and burned into someone, and I got 1st place for doing it! But, this game isn't as great as some have said. It's OK to drive the circuits or do the demolition derby in the arena, but I have gotten tired of it, so sorry to whoever said you won't get bored with this game, I did!

There isn't enough tracks, there isn't enough cars, and it really needs more in the game. It needs a proper race, without the demolition, you can do a time trial, but I want a proper race with all the cars. There also needed to be an option to turn the check points off... I just wanna turn around and go the other way for something different, but once you run out of time, it's game over. Also, it needed something else, like in Mario Kart where you get the shells to throw, or the boosters/nitros, or things to lay booby-traps on the track... this game really needed something like that.

Currently Nintendo has managed to bring out a Gameboy that's pretty much a compact SNES/N64. So if they release this game again, lets hope they add more to it.

Two player mode is OK. Most of what the reviews here say are true, the bomb tag is the best, but it sucks that there is only about 4 tracks to compete in.

All there is, is Arcade. Where you race the first race of the tournament, and that's it.
Tournament, or championship mode or something where you race about 5 tracks and a couple of demolition derby's.
Time trials.
And then 2 player with normal, destruction, bomb-tag and flag .. there needed to be heaps, heaps more included.

I believe if THQ had made another version, it would be the same as the difference between WCW REVENGE & WWF NO MERCY.. the extras just separate the two completely.

This game is ok. Good for 2 player. Not too bad in the graphics and controls. But it just needs more in it.