Well, being new to the Tomb Raider games, i just tried this game for a few moments on my new PlayStation 2.  Whoa, this was not what I expected at all, in both a good and bad way.  First, the good side.
I was always a Nintendo gamer, naturally with a Nintendo 64.  In that case, this game was the first ps1 game I've ever owned.  Knowing that ps came out much earlier than n64, i was amazed by the graphics in this game.  Voice and backgrounds are all very nice and realistic.  Plus you get to play as a teenage Lara, which makes it even better.  You also get even more weapons, moves, and length in this game as well.
In this aspect I was very pleased.  But there always is a downfall:  THE CONTROLS!  What an impossible game to play.  And i'm not talking about difficulty, the controls make it difficult.  You move the analog stick from side to side and instead of moving Lara sideways, you just changed the direction of her view.  Then when you are lined up, you must push forward to move.  It is very difficult and some of the views do not help.
Just to show you how hard this really is to master, I've been playing this game for 2 and 1/2 hours now and still haven't advanced past the training at the beginning.  Ha, and the training barely helps with the controls.  All you will hear is "To do a long jump, press forward.  Then immediately push JUMP.  Then push ACTION to climb up the ledge.:  Yeah, like you even know what they are talking about or when exactly to push these buttons.
Overall, I give it 3 stars. Why?  First off, if you are an experienced gamer with Lara, I'm sure this is easier for you.  Second, it is rather enjoyable considering I have tried to play it 5 times now in a course of a day.  At these facts alone, the game deserves a 2.  But hey, it's 10 bucks. Thats it.  For that price, it deserves a better rating.
BOTTOM LINE:  You've played and like Lara, get this one too.  If you are a beginner like me, try an older version or another console's version of Tomb Raider instead.
WARNING: Just a warning for all PS2 users, if you only have a PS2, you can't use your normal memory card to save.  You need a PS1 memory card.