Instead of all these ones from newbie gamers who are fixed on graphics? Alright. Instead of calling this the best PlayStation game of all time, or even more laughable, one of the best games of all time, or even sadder, the best game of all time, let's get a couple of things straight first, shall we? While not bad, Metal Gear Solid left me wanting more and getting less than you'd think. Hideo Kojima set out to make one thing: a movie-like experience game. On that level, Hideo created an unrivalled masterpiece that has few equals in the action and story category of movies... but that's just it: movie; we're supposed to be playing a game here, not watching a movie. And on that level, while Hideo didn't fail, he didn't succeed either... You play Solid Snake, an ex-Fox-Hound, just out of retirement, cold, 30-something, living legend whose whole life seems to circle around the battlefield. Your mission is to infiltrate a nuclear weapons disposal facility in Alaska being ran by terrorists Fox-Hound, and rescue hostages DARPA chief Donald Anderson and the president of Armstech, Kenneth Baker. On top of that, you are to find out if Fox-Hound really has the capability of launching a nuclear attack like they've threatened, and stop them if they do. This is one job you wouldn't want to take for all the copies of Radiant Silvergun in the world. The controls are fairly simple, nicely responsive, and easy to pick. The music ranges from the typical stuff you'd expect to hear to an action game, to some beautiful, almost opera-like vocal performances that are dark and astonishing. The sound is also well done, and very detailed. You (and your enemy) can hear everything: from footsteps, to tapping on the wall, to gunshots that you'd swear were the really thing, even the most jaded would be impressed here (hey... stop looking at me!). Speaking of the enemy, the AI to the game, while not all that intelligent at times (walking a course? Come on), is very interesting. They pick up on footsteps, gunshots, knocks on the wall, and even good ol' David's... I mean, Solid Snake's cold--impressive. The characters are lively and very real. I loved all the characters minus Otacon and Meryl; Otacon who I was hoping would "accidentally" get shot, and Meryl who, well, just felt out of place. The rest though, were amazing. Personal favorites were Sniper Wolf and Vulcan Raven who are, hands down, two of the coolest bad guys ever. There are also some cool bonus stuff to do, like the VR missions and taking pictures. You can also talk to your friends (that word being used loosely...) through Codec, which is like an ultra high-tech walkie-talkie. Occasionally the voice actors sound out of place ("Japanese animes"? Hello!), but that's very rarely, and the rest of the time they manage to not only avoid the trap of the Resident Evil trend, but do so with grace. Then, there's the problems of this game... The small ones would be the over-head camera, which gets annoying quickly. There are times when I'd miss an enemy, who was five feet away from me, all because the camera wouldn't give me a good view. No big. Then, there's the length of the game--it's EXTREMELY short. Scenario: I buy the so-called "best game ever" for ... (that's what it cost when it came out, mind you). I play game and enjoy the gameplay I do find. Metal Gear Solid is beaten in less than a day. Argh! I think you get the point... Not a major, major problem, but enough to deduct a star. But the worst problem is the story itself. Sure, it's impressive, and one of the best stories of all time (forget game of the year, call it movie of the year), but as Hideo himself said, combining a movie and a game is like combining water and oil--they just don't mix. Meryl and Snake's relationship "mature"? Please. By video game standards, yes. I suppose Squall's and Rinoa's was, too (I still shudder at the mere mention of those two Dawson's Creek stars...). But by the real world standards, it seems like cheesy puppy love that quickly becomes hard to swallow. That's not the problem, the problem is this: the story takes up WAY too much time of the game. And that's where everyone who's giving this a top-notch, perfect, five star rating (which seems to be everyone from Amazon reviewers to NextGen to your own ma and pa) gets confused--Metal Gear Solid is supposed to be a game, not a movie. As a movie, it's a masterpiece of epic proportions that can rival even T2. As a game, it's only fun for the few hours it actually lasts--or should I say, the hours where you're trying to stay awake through all the Codec talking. Sure, sure, you can argue that Xenogears was the same way, but A. Xenogears had a groundbreaking story, that just so happens to be the best story of all time, and B. I actually got more gameplay time out of the short and heavily texted second disk of Xenogears than I did the entire two disks of Metal Gear Solid. It gets sad when you're spending minutes upon minutes hearing about Snake talk about how he has no family when you're supposed to actually be playing the game. And while the gameplay that is here is fantastic, it's too-good story is not so surprisingly its own downfall. Just an idea, but wouldn't it be fun if we, I dunno, say, actually played a game, not a movie? Great idea, huh? Afterall, that's what this is supposed to be: a video game, not a movie....