Rampage World Tour did well in the arcade scene as it picks up from the first Rampage title back in the 80's and updates it for the 90s back then. Then, Midway decided to port it over to the N64 and in 1997, it was released and sold a decent number of copies. It's exactly like the arcade and it's decent fun for awhile. Then, it just gets old fast and you realize you do the same thing over and over again.

You pick one of three characters: the gorilla, the werewolf and the lizard. Your job is to just cause as much destruction and mayhem as possible on each stage you're in. The stages take place in various cities based on the real world so you'll see famous landmarks along the way. The police and military are hot on your tail so grab various health power ups to stay alive (or eat the many innocent people running around.) Eventually, you'll fight all the way to the moon where you'll defeat the mutated CEO of the company responsible for turning you into a monster. There's only one mode to play so grab 2 more friends to play along with you for even more destruction. At various points, you're allowed to save your progress and since it's a big game, it will take you awhile to see everything.

The PROS: Midway did a nice job at duplicating the arcade game so it looks, plays and feels just like you are standing in front of the cabinet. Playing by yourself is fun for awhile but it's better when 2 other players join you and you can either work together or just beat each other up. If you meet certain conditions, you'll access secret areas just like you can do in the arcade version.

The CONS: The fact that it's just like the arcade game is its biggest drawback. Even if you play with your friends, you're doing the same thing over and over again: destroy cities, eat people and rack up as much points as you can. The repetition kicks in pretty quick and just seeing it to the end will feel like a chore. It's also easy as hell since you have unlimited continues and there's no penalty for not clearing out stages in time. The stages pretty much look the same except for the major ones since they feature famous landmarks but overall, there is little variety. Midway didn't bother to put in extra content to unlock so when you beat the game, that's it. The only re-playability comes in finding the secret areas/cities tucked in somewhere in the game.

Rampage World Tour is not a bad game at all. It can be fun if you play it in chunks and it certainly is even better with other players. If you loved the arcade game and can't get enough of it, this game won't disappoint. But with no extra content and repetition sinking in after playing it for awhile, it keeps it from being better than it should be. Get this one used if you want to try it out.