Mortal Kombat Trilogy, a fighting game that takes all of the characters from 1-3 and Ultimate MK3 and placed in a massive (at the time) fighting game. basically all of the same sprites from the other games (excluding Johnny Cage, which is the only new looking sprite in the game) put them in a fighting game that is just Mortal Kombat 1-3 with a few missing levels, missing the Pit 2 fatality animation, and adding 4 older versions of the characters with some horrible animation. I still like the older MK games, but with the age of the newer mortal kombats (Deadly Alliance, Deception and Armeggedon), these games feel a little too outdated. I think this is a great game but it has a ton of glitches (and there's only one good glitch in this game). when you turn on the 1 button fatality option and when you try to finish your opponent with your 1 button fatality, it doesn't always happen. sometimes you might end up still trying to finish your person off and no matter if you hit that person or whatever, you have to wait until the match is finished. When you play this on a PS2, if you have the speed doubled and you finish a match, it freezes on you, if you have the graphics level doubled and you either finish the match or something else that you do, it might or will freeze up. If you don't have either option on and you decide to start over from the beginning (that stupid buy in screen is what I am talking about), it freezes on you. The only good glitch in this game is that when you play as Noob Saibot and you do that jump and grab move, if your opponent is to the point to uppercutting him/her off the bridge and into the Pit 1 spikes, you can actually have that person fall all the way to the ground instead of just landing on the spikes and having them stopping the opponent falling all the way to the ground. you can actually see a little bit of blue on the bottom of the screen when this happens.

because of these horrible flaws, thisis why I am giving the overall rating of 3. If this didn't happen, then yes I would recommend getting this, but because Armeggedon is coming out in a few days (which has all of the characters from the series, including Chameleon from the PSone version of MK Trilogy, Meat from MK4 and 2 new characters from the Konquest mode in that game and hopefully won't have any horrible glitches like this game does), it's probably pointless to get this. If you don't like PSone and you have a N64, get that version. If you don't have either but have a PC, try getting Midway Arcade Treasures Deluxe Edition and the PC version of MK4 (I think they released it for PC too). If you hate either PSone or N64, wait for Armeggedon. If you don't like the 2 systems and don't care for Armeggedon, get Deadly Alliance or Deception on the PS2, GC, or Xbox. If you don't like that, then youare out of luck.