This game was...my first ever introduction to Final Fantasy back in the days when the internet started becoming commonplace (circa 2000-2001). I was first introduced to it after playing the great Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time since I was new to the plethora of RPGs out at the time. I have gone back and played this game many times since then. I give it credit for bringing me in but I do not deem it the best Final Fantasy game. Let's start with the pros.

PROS
For PS1 graphics, the character and monster modeling was really good. They everything seem more realistic by having the characters' heights and widths proportional during and outside of battles. The animations during battle had more detail than Final Fantasy 7. For example, looking at a Tonberry from FF7 and comparing it to FF8 I could see more detail and texture in FF8. The Full motion video cut scenes were also really nice to look at. Everything looked smooth and transitions to the normal graphics weren't terrible to watch.

Having the ability to summon your espers (Guardian Forces) during battle an endless amount of times assuming it was still alive, could help during some of the more difficult battles (Con on this aspect mentioned later).

Easy to level up for those who get tired of that aspect and know where to find the right enemies (i.e. Vysage, Lefty, and Righty in that one gorge on the Galbadia Continent).

A vast selection of spells and abilities.

Challenging Sidequest Boss fights (but not impossible)

The music was awesome. There may have been a few tracks here or there could drive one nuts (Fithos Lusec Wecos Vinosec playing in the sewers at the end of disc 1)

Now let's talk about the Cons. These will outweigh the pros.

CONS

The junction system.
I don't hate on this setup completely because it could employ strategy. There is no MP like in the most other FF games. You draw and stock magic from enemies and warp points to boost your stats, elemental defense, and status defense but you have to watch which spells you use and how often or your stats will suffer. Leveling up doesn't seem to affect your character growth much. For example, junctioning 100 Ultimas to the strength of a level 15 character could produce better results than raising that character's level to 100. Character levels truly come into effect when determining the strength of the monsters since they level as you do. But this can make story line bosses less challenging.

The drawing.
So, you go into a battle against a caterpillar creature and you see spells like Thunder and Cure that you "need." Your goal as an RPG player is to make your characters the best they can be. So to do that you stand there and draw the spells that you want/need. But you realize that the more you have the better you'll become. Thus, you will take 1, 2, or all 3 characters available and just draw the limitless amount Thunder and Cure spells to fill up your 100 stock limit. All the while being smacked, or chewed on by this giant bug. It's damage is minor and if you see your HP getting super low just cast a Cure spell on yourself and you are good to go! 10 to 15 minutes later you have 100 stock of each spell for each character... Now let's do that again with a different enemy and for different spells. Oh wait, some characters only draw a few at a time while others draw a larger amount (up to 9) per turn. Gee, their magic skill just sucks! You will spend hours just drawing magic to junction to your stats and never use for fear of weakening your character. Later in the game you will be able to Refine magic from items in vast quantities but even still if an enemy has a spell you don't have access to right there and then (cough meteor cough aura) chances are you will spend the time drawing to have it for "just in case measures." I could go on and on with this but this drawing really is nothing but busy work.

The summons:
Yes it's neat to interact with them more often than previous games but that can be a huge detriment. They are best known for helping you learn abilities. The game has an algorithm where you get your money based on the steps you take around the world and it goes up the more monsters you defeat. At the same time it will go down by a set amount if you haven't battled enough and just walk around aimlessly for hours in circles. You have to keep battling to maintain it at the highest salary given. The catch is if a summon defeats the enemies you don't get the credit for it. It has be done by your party members. This makes the summoning less appealing. Granted there will be times you will feel the need to let loose the destructive power of Bahamut or Doomtrain but at later points in the game your characters can become so strong that it would be a waste of time to summon. Plus, your character has a compatibility with each summon and it goes up or down with every summon depending on which spells you cast and other summons you use. Need to use Shiva on a Bomb? Go ahead but every time you do, Ifrit will be harder to summon! Some people will just save them for the boss battles but either your characters will be at a decent stat level after all the drawing or the instant you summon a GF some bosses will go ballistic on the summoner and severely hurt or kill your GF. The abilities are useful and come in a wide range but until you find the right places to get the ability points for each ability faster (Cactuar Island) it will be a long wait before getting Encounter None or Call Shop. How do you even get these summons? Most if not all are optional and minus a few, you just draw them from boss battles. I would have preferred the old ways and actually fought to have them at my side.

The story:
I won't give too much away if there is someone out there who wants to play it for the story and overall experience to make their own conclusions.
The overall idea  about time travel and tragic love stories intertwined are intriguing and it has left some open ended areas for fans to speculate how it all began or why it all ended the way it did. Was it all a dream? Was she the future evil form an alternate timeline? But there are some plot holes that really drove me nuts. If these young adults can summon almighty beings to fight off the evils of the world, why haven't they done so already? Let's sneak in and assassinate a powerful figure with a sniper rifle. Wait, why not just summon Ifrit to throw a giant flaming meteor at her and kill her on the spot? Three discs saved! This could be a complaint with other Final Fantasy games (like 7). The difference here is that you can summon these things in battle multiple times until they, you, or the monsters on the other side are dead. In FF5 and prior you were limited to your MP pool and you could argue that "with great power come great responsibility" and that could carry over to realism. In FF6, espers could only be summoned once per battle and with the required MP. In FF7, up to 5 times (ignoring the master materia stuff from sidquests) but still you were limited to your MP pool. It was a basic stratagem of conserving your resources for the right times. This could roll over into the story and play parts into why the characters made the decisions that they did. Where is that conservation in FF8? Ifrit can rain fire down on people so long as he stays alive. It doesn't tax Squall's health, stamina, or magic stock to do so. If there were seemingly realistic limits in place (like using a set amount of fire spells to summon Ifrit each time) maybe I could get behind it more.

And then there's the part where one character appears at the end of the first disc and it takes him a full disc to reveal that he knows who everyone is except for one person, how they grew up together a long time ago, and how the evil they are fighting is someone dear to them from their childhood. WHY WASN'T THIS TOLD WHEN THEY TRIED TO ASSASSINATE THE NOW EVIL PERSON? No justifiable reason is given. The others forgot thanks to the use of the summons and how it affects their memory. This was barely explained at all but even if it that works why would the one person who remembered everything not try to tell them something rather important? If there had been more thought put into this being plausible like he had amnesia and being around everyone stirred up memories, that would at least scrape the barrel. The problem again was that he knew the whole time because he didn't use the GFs...GAHHHH. Noah Antwiler was right.

There are a lot of other things to nitpick about here like how a prominent non-playable character allows you to see the past and tries to change it for the better knowing it is futile and not having their powers ever given an explanation on how they got them or why they got them...but I have droned on long enough.

For me, if you leave out the story, the game play with battling can employ some strategy to a point but by amassing enough money, finding all the right places to level abilities, and go to  the right shops, you can buy and refine rare items to boost stats and abilities to near or at max. As an addition I forgot about the card mod ability that can turn enemies into cards and you can refine items from them (like the morph materia in FF7). So, just for game play and experimenting, it's not a terrible game but it definitely is not the best>

If you leave out the battle system and look at the story alone, it has some serious plot holes and would require fan speculation to fill those in. It has prompted a lot of thought on my part to fill in the voids. But part of that is the beauty of it. Love it or hate it, this game has given a lot fan speculation and theories on who these people are, their backstories, and their future stories. I am ignoring the fanboys and fangirls jumping on the "Emo-coolness" of Squall. I can appreciate and understand Squall's motives and like his design and abilities but it's a rehash of Cloud from FF7 only with a more involved love story. Cloud and Tifa shared feelings with each other but it was more of companionship and sibling-"hood." I don't recall them falling in love with each other to the point of boyfriend and girlfriend. Final Fantasy 8 is not the best game of the series but like I said before it actually brought me into the series so I have to pay it homage. I give it a 6/10.