In the spirit of the game itself, let's start this review with an Epic Prologue:

~~1998. One year ago Final Fantasy VII singlehandedly transformed video games forever and ushered in the Golden Age of Square. SquareSoft was now officially a Big Deal. A VERY Big Deal. Super Mario RPG, Chrono Trigger, and Final Fantasy VI had all been megahits, but Final Fantasy VII was a phenomenon. The back of the CD cover art says it all: "Quite Possibly the Greatest Game Ever Made." Afterwards, Square had just about cemented its reputation as Quite Possibly the Greatest Video Game Designers Ever with a string of successful titles that included Final Fantasy Tactics, Parasite Eve, Einhander, and Bushido Blade. It was like they were incapable of making games that people didn't love. Square was at the top of its game. Its popularity-- and profits-- had never been higher.

But there was one small problem.

There was no avoiding it. It HAD to happen. Square was now faced with the unenviable task of producing a sequel that could live up to and surpass "Quite Possibly the Greatest Game Ever Made."

Square had been in the game long enough (so to speak) to know what kind of a situation they were in and what kind of people they were peddling to. An unpopular sequel has the potential to wreck a franchise-- and if it's an especially high-budget sequel and the franchise in question is your main moneymaker, it can sometimes even prove fatal. Square could not afford to screw up Final Fantasy VIII, and any final product less than "Quite Possibly the Greatest Game Ever Made" would have constituted screwing up.
~~
Final Fantasy VIII is an aberration. Everyone wondered where the franchise could possibly go after its groundbreaking and apocalyptic seventh installment, but NOBODY could have possibly predicted how VIII would actually turn out. The Materia system-- which was a modification for the Magicite/Relic system-- was swept aside completely and replaced by the Junction system. Armor and accessories vanished; party members now equipped Guardian Forces and spells. Weapon upgrades are no longer necessary. SeeD, the mercenary group for which your characters work, introduces a salary mechanic, making slaying monsters completely irrelevant to earning Gil. Enemies leveled up along with the party. Cutscenes and conversations constituted a far larger portion of the game than ever before, and the exploration and battles the series was built on became far less prominent. The whole package was presented as a vehicle for a new breed of love story. The designers defied expectations the only way that was sure to work: warping and breaking every rule they could, catching everyone off guard and keeping their heads spinning. It's a Gordian solution: if a standard can't be met, CHANGE it instead.

Doing things differently, of course, isn't a fault in itself; but whether the changes are improvements makes a big difference. Just look at what happened with Final Fantasy II. Final Fantasy VIII and its plethora of new concepts and mechanics are much less of a failed experiment than the series' ill-fated second installment, but they're still, at best, a mixed bag.

Final Fantasy VIII is the first entry in the series to use realistically-proportioned character models that remain consistent between field maps and battle screens. In addition to making its cast more realistic in their physical appearances, Final Fantasy VIII also strives to depict them thinking and acting more like actual people instead of exaggerated cartoon characters who rely on gimmicks and archetypes to define themselves.

The game centers mostly around Squall Leonhart, the shining star of Balamb Garden, who is often characterized as a lone wolf who has difficulty expressing himself to others, but it's much easier and a lot more accurate to just say Squall's an enormous jerk. All throughout the game, you're forced to watch him whine and sulk about whatever happens to be bothering him at that moment. People speaking to him annoys him. His friends annoy him. His instructors annoy him. His job annoys him. His fellow students inexplicably look up to him, even though he treats most of them like subhuman mongoloids. On the plus side, Square does an admirable job of fleshing him out. I don't think any game that came out before Final Fantasy explored their protagonists' inner lives so thoroughly. It's a shame that this protagonist happens to be such an unlikable, angst-ridden, jerk.

His love interest for the game is played by Rinoa Heartily (no, really). As "princess" of the Forest Owls, a resistance group fighting for Timber's independence from Galbadia, Rinoa commissions SeeD for assistance with the Owls' harebrained schemes. Rinoa is the outsider of the group. She never attended Garden, and isn't a SeeD, (huh, I just got that) like the rest. Rinoa used to bump uglies with Seifer, but she develops a crush on Squall because she evidently has a fetish for self-absorbed jerkwads with gunblades. She has a down-to-earth and impulsive personality, and the only possible way Square could have possibly characterized her any more maladroitly would have been to make Cyndi Lauper play over the soundtrack whenever she appears onscreen.

The rest of the party is sadly somewhat two-dimensional. Quistis is a former SeeD instructor who occasionally acts as an advisor to Squall, but doesn't do much beyond that. The only two emotional states Zell seems capable of are "OHH YEAH!" and "AWW, MAN!!". And Selphie, the transfer student from Trabia Garden is a typical perky Japanese schoolgirl, who also happens to have paramilitary training. Battle Royale has NOTHING on her. Irvine Kinneas is a sharpshooter from Galbadia Garden who is responsible for some really tense and emotional scenes at the end of Act 1, but then takes the entire rest of the game off afterwards.

Over the course of the game, Squall periodically falls into a dream-like state in which he experiences the world through the eyes of a stranger. This stranger is Laguna, a Galbadian soldier who aspires to be a famous journalist. His wacky misadventures lead him all across the globe until he finally finds himself stuck in Esthar. Laguna is Squall's opposite: clumsy, good-natured, loquacious, and...well, likable.  His character is an intentional throwback to the less brooding and more cartoony heroes of Final Fantasy V and VI. His two level-headed war buddies, Kiros Seagill, and Ward Zabac, also recall JRPG's 16-bit days, when it was excusable to have a character without a complicated backstory or complex psychological motivations to explore. They have cool weapons, even cooler fighting styles, and that is enough. Seriously, screw the main cast. Final Fantasy VIII should have been about these guys.

The main headliner antagonist for the first Act of the game is Sorceress Edea, who received her sorceress powers first at the age of five, and then once again as an adult, thanks to a mix-up involving time travel. It might be worth noting that a terminology change was made in the North American localization of Final Fantasy VIII. The English script refers to Edea as a sorceress, but what she's called in the original Japanese is evidently a lot closer to "witch." Interesting choice. "Witch" is a bit of a loaded term; Square's American branch probably worried that players would associate it with pointy hats and broomsticks, inadvertently softening the impact of the sleek, stylish, and genuinely menacing trio of Edea, Adel, and Ultimecia. But "witch" still might have been the better choice: Possessed Edea's speech and manners are very evocative of the Hans Christian Anderson breed of witch, especially in the scene in which she lures Seifer to her side. (The old woman in the gingerbread house probably spoke to Hansel in the same tones.) And since Final Fantasy VIII's world was designed to have a more predominantly Western feel than previous entries', it makes sense for the game's story to tap into Europe's traditional witch-phobia. Possessed Edea speaking of the populace's deep-seated hatred and fear towards sorceresses isn't terribly evocative; the scene probably would have struck more of a chord with English-speaking audiences had she referred to people hating and fearing witches instead. Ah, well. In any event, the series never had a better villain than it did in the first half of Final Fantasy VIII. She is a mix of the queen from Snow White, Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty, and the stepmother from Cinderella mixed and stirred together with honey and arsenic.

Supporting her is Siefer Almasy, who is talented, self-absorbed, short-tempered, and fiercely independent. Soon after his arrogance costs him his last shot at becoming a SeeD, he defects from Garden to serve as Sorceress Edea's personal knight. He is her bodyguard, commander of her armed forces, and an anti-SeeD bloodhound. When Edea is neutralized, Seifer retains his control of the Galbadian Army and continues to take orders from Ultimecia out of sheer stubbornness - to prove that he was right and will come out on top over Squall in the end.

His rivalry with Squall is one of the games other main highlights. Square knew it had scored a hit with the Cloud and Sephiroth face-off in Final Fantasy VII, so they tried taking the idea a step further in the next game. Cloud and Sephiroth were basically just two guys who happened to get in each other's way, but Squall and Seifer are two sides of a coin. The conflict between them seems so much more fitting and inevitable. They have known each other their entire lives. They use the same weapon. They have polar personalities. Their hair and clothes are opposite colors. They have matching scars. They have both been romantically involved with Rinoa. You could probably say that Seifer comes out the loser because Squall discovers the POWER OF LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP over the course of the game, while Seifer insists on going off on his own and pushing his friends away from him. Its a shame he has to share the stage with Edea, Adel, and Ultimecia, who all take turns stealing his thunder. And never once does he post a serious threat when you actually face him in battle.

The final foe you go up against is Sorceress Ultimecia, a cruel and vastly powerful foe from the distant future who seeks to achieve Time Compression for incomprehensible reasons only she knows. To accomplish this, she uses a machine to bring her consciousness into the present to possess people and find a girl named Ellone (who is nothing but a plot device that walks and talks) whose unique power can take her even further into the past. Only there, apparently, can she cast the spell that results in the compression of the past, present, and future into a single moment in which only she can exist. Really, I don't have a clue, and I suspect Final Fantasy VIII's writers didn't either. The whole scenario practically screams RUSH JOB. Thanks to some trickery involving Ellone's powers, Squall and the heroes manage to allow Ultimecia to only achieve a partial state of time compression - just enough to let Squall and co. vault into Ultimecia's time period while retaining access to the present-day world map, certain dungeons, the airship, and all the important Triple Triad players from Balamb Garden. Don't ask how it's supposed to make sense. It doesn't. Time Compression was also a great excuse for the producers to slash the production budget for the ending sequence. Why is half of the ending movie made up of distorted and looping FMV clips from earlier in the game? TIME COMPRESSION. If you want a few laughs, check out some of the bigger Final Fantasy fansites out there and watch them try to analyze and explain Time Compression. See what they come up with. It's really surprising how many of them have convinced themselves it's legitimate. To Ultimecia's credit though, her battle is amazing. She puts up a tougher fight than any Final Fantasy end boss yet, including Kefka and Sephiroth.

For all Final Fantasy VII's ambivalence towards urbanization and industrialization, Final Fantasy VIII presents a world of modern, clean, and relatively harmonious European-inspired cities. And whereas Final Fantasy VII's world, sharply divided between pastoral Arcadias and industrialized sprawl, embodied the game's themes, Final Fantasy VIII's sometimes seems like it was designed to be little else than a pretty-looking place for the heroes to run around in. This isn't surprising; Final Fantasy VIII's narrative intentionally directs its focus almost exclusively on its characters rather than any underlying social or environmental messages. The game's cities, ruins, and remote railroad tracks are designed and rendered beautifully, to be sure, but its world often feels a lot less diverse and more compacted than Final Fantasy VII's Planet.

The latest incarnations of the famed Final Fantasy summon monsters are Guardian Forces, independent energy sources that SeeDs capture and junction to their brains (no, really) to augment their fighting abilities. One of the benefits of having an elemental deity living in your head is the ability to manipulate certain types of energy. This skill is called Para-Magic, and was developed as means of giving normal humans a way to counter the "real" magic that only sorceresses have access to as descendants of the Great Hyne. It's possible to play through Final Fantasy VIII half a dozen times and still not pick up on this. The game is full of tidbits and plot points like this; in order to really understand what's going on in Final Fantasy VIII, you need to talk to everyone and explore everything. It's a real treat for players who enjoy meticulously exploring every corner of a game, but potentially alienating for those who'd rather just play for an hour or so a day to unwind after class or work.

Speaking of unwinding after work: Triple Triad. This is probably the best minigame in any JRPG to date, and possibly Final Fantasy VIII's most influential aspect. The rules are simple, the matches are quick, and the rewards are great. Since it's low-maintenance and totally optional, casual gamers can play only occasionally and still get some neat stuff out of it. But there are also enough tricky rule changes, special opponents, and rare cards to seek out that the more hardcore audience might actually spend more time in Triple Triad matches than actual battles.

There are multitudes of fans out there who hold Final Fantasy VIII as their favorite game in the series. Fine. I can live with that. After all, the Junction System and Triple Triad are loads of fun, and they're both exclusive to Final Fantasy VIII. But it has come to my attention that there are people out there who love the game for its story. That's something I have a much harder time swallowing.

Even today, video games are still a developing medium. It wouldn't really be fair to sit here and try to compare the love story of Final Fantasy VIII to the multitude of far superior efforts out there. This game's love-themed plot may have fallen short, but you can't say the developers didn't try.  As bad a taste as the Squall/Rinoa melodrama leaves in my mouth, Final Fantasy VIII attempted something that hadn't been done before in video games, and deserves kudos for that.

But what they don't deserve kudos for, is "Eyes on Me."

Final Fantasy VIII intended to make the line between video games and cinema even blurrier. Somewhere during the development, it was decided that the game needed a signature theme: a song that do what "Dont You (Forget About Me)" did for The Breakfast Club, or that one awful Aerosmith single did for that one awful Bruce Willis flick about asteroids. So Square called up Yu Yamada and Faye Wong, who went on to write and record six minutes of constructed sound so trite and sterile that even Lite FM would be reluctant to spin it. Final Fantasy VIII's signature tune, "Eyes on Me," is as much a love ballad as Grape Drink is a fruit juice. It's comprised of ingredients that are derived from or resemble things you'll find in a good love song, and it almost sort of sounds like one-- but it's really only pretending. "Eyes on Me" is a spiritless and artificial affront to music, and should never have been a big a deal as it somehow became.

In the end, I'm still scratching my head here. Final Fantasy VIII succeeds and innovates on so many levels, but fails and trips over itself on just about as many. It has some of the most realistic-looking characters ever seen in video games (at the time of its release), but they still act like two-dimensional cutouts. It has the best party customization system since Final Fantasy V, but the dungeons are short and the enemies easy enough that you could theoretically play through 90% of the game using nothing but GF attacks. "Premonition" and "Vithos Lusec Wenos Vinosec" are among the best and most evocative tunes ever composed for a video game, but "Eyes on Me" is a stinking bottom-feeder. Final Fantasy VIII attempts to blend video games and cinema; the result is half above-average video game and half evil omen of things to come (Final Fantasy Spirits Within). The list goes on.

Final Fantasy VIII isn't really a step forward for the series, but not a step backwards, either. It's a hop to the side; a change of direction of an even greater scale than the false start in Final Fantasy II or the steampunk Renaissance of VI. This is the new face of Final Fantasy. From now on, expect the norm to be Japanese teen-idol heroes, millions' worth of eye-popping special effects, epic Hollywood storylines, and a general sense of substance being overidden by style and high-end fluff. Success can sometimes be the worst thing to happen to a creative outfit.