Finally, they're getting Star Trek right. This is a thoroughly enjoyable  game, with incredible graphics and wonderful (if not always engrossing)  sound. There are a number of significant, but not crippling, flaws which  mar an otherwise great game, but for Trekkies and sci-fi sim fans, this is  definitely a game to get.
The gameplay here is solid and easy to  understand. The designers understand that you're flying a capital ship, not  a snub fighter, and the physics reflect that through lethargic turns and  gradual accel/decel curves. Even though this may sound like it would lead  to slow and boring gameplay, it's anything but. The tension builds and I've  found myself squirming, trying to get my targets lined up for that perfect  shot--a great feeling of satisifaction when I succeed.
The controls are  easy to understand, but slightly cumbersome to use. Though innovate, the  VOS (Voice Order System) takes too long to utilize during the middle of the  battle. VOS relies on the use of the keypad to issue orders and to  distribute power to the ships various systems, and between maneuvering your  behemoth mass of destructive power, and then using that power to blast your  enemies, you just don't have a third hand to play with shields, weapon  charge rates, damage control, and countless other things. Hotkeys are  available, scattered through the keyboard, but they are far from intuitive  and too numerous to quickly memorize.
The designers tried to compensate  by creating Power Macros, and it's a great move. Using the F1-F8 keys, and  a control board under the Engineers screen, you can define preset levels  for all of your ships systems based on the tactics you plan to employ.  Which is fantastic... if the battle goes the way you plan. Still, the Power  Macros enable the player to quickly redistribute power during the middle of  battle, a vital necessity, but one that looses the need to quickly change  small details (like overcharging weapons after you've made your approach  under cloak for a devastating first strike.)
The graphics are incredible,  with fantastic debris fields and damage representation. Blast a photon  torpedo into the enemies hull and see the flames consume the decks. The  movies are equally well done, but are prone to stuttering (you'd think  they'd have this problem fixed by now.) Yet when the movies do stutter, you  don't loose any of the lines, it just keeps repeating until moving out of  the trap.
The sound is well done, with quality music and a delightful  environmental background during battles, but will occasionally cut out  without reason. Other reviewers have had this problem as well, and it just  seems to be a problem in need of patching, as reducing the demands on the  soundcard make no difference.
The game has also caused the system to  freeze up on occasion, and blue screens on exiting are common. All of these  bugs are typical of Interplay productions, in my experience, and I got  Klingon Academy expecting them to be there in one form or another. And,  ironically enough, that's testimony to how good this game is. Despite these  problems, it's a great game, and the gameplay isn't seriously affected by  these problems.
In summary, there's nothing particularly revolutionary  about this game except the fact that they finally got the Star Trek genre  right. There's a great feel to the game, and a good plot line to carry you  through it. The gameplay is solid and easy to understand, if a little  cumbersome during the middle of battle. And the bugs in the most basic of  program functionality (ala Interplay's legacy) are really unfortunate as  they add frustration to what is otherwise a great experience--I'd have  given 4 stars if it weren't for these.
(I'm running on a Pent III 800  Coppermine with 128M RAM at 100Mhz with a Viper V770 32M and SoundBlaster  Live! Value.)