I'm not going to go too in-depth as it has been done to death already - just giving my two cents as I recently decided to play my huge backlog of RPG games.

To the good:
As an avid rpg player, I found that the most important part of the genre is the story, and this game does not disappoint. The whole piece is a cinematic love story with various plot twists to make it interesting to find out what happens next. The graphics were beyond phenomenal for its time and has hold up pretty well over the ages due to its pre-rendered back grounds. The CG as most reviews have said, are a work of art. Music are up to the veteran composer's standards and the new Junction system is an interesting departure from the norm.

To the bad:
The only thing about this game IS the story. There is nothing to "Role-Play" in this game. None of the choices I make have any lasting decisions and I am just left pressing the okay button to literally tens of minutes (if not more) of dialogue and in-game cut-scenes (which are admittedly gorgeous) before the next few random battle/boss battle only to repeat it over and over again - I am not kidding about this either - let me interact and play! It's called a "game" not a "book". You also can't really explore the world until late in the game, every area is off-limits until the appropriate time it's introduced. You can't modify your equipment as readily as you were able to in previous games and there is little point to the weapons themselves as the entire battle system seems to revolve around the Junction/GF system (Unless of course, you're doing limit breaks). Magic too is not as effective as the GF system - which is another fault on its on:

  As beautiful as it is to see these gargantuans of magic come to life to slay my enemies, each summoning takes around 30secs, and there is no turning off this animation - the worse part is that the amount of damage they do does not correlate in any way to the amount of time it takes to summon them. This means that every random battle (and there are a LOT until you learn the appropriate skills) takes about some amount of time to finish just due to the summoning animation.

I had some high hopes for this game as I really enjoyed the preceding games in this series - overall, it's not a BAD game as some would suggest, but it's nowhere as addicting or fun as it could've been.