Final Fantasy 8 begins with a CG video so impressive, you think yet again Squaresoft has managed to create an excellent RPG adventure. The opening sequence switches between an intense swordfight between the game's hero, Squall, and his archenemy, Seifer, and scenes of Squall's soon to be lover, Rinoa, dancing through a field of flowers. It's artfully done, and very exciting. However, the results of said battle are underwhelming. Both men receive as wounds a scratch on the cheek, which happens to deliver Squall to the hospital. And so, in a matter of moments, the game switches from awesome to disappointing that its hero is such a wimp. Despite some triumphs in the graphics area, FF8's lame story, uninteresting characters, and step away from the traditional RPG norm make it a forgettable experience.

The main problem comes from the game's plot, which wouldn't be so bad if cutscenes weren't so long and there weren't boring and cliched characters populating the story (the only non-human characters in the game are enemies). Squall is a Cloud wanna-be, only he takes his role a little too far. He becomes an emo, depressed teenager who delves too much into his own thoughts to notice that the game's three beautiful female characters all have feelings for him. Right. Squall, along with his archenemy Seifer, is a student at a school called SeeD, whose purpose is to train teens to fight and undergo secret missions. Seifer is a much more childish version of the frightening Sephiroth from FF7. He bullies fellow students by calling them "chicken-wuss," rebels by not wearing the school uniform, and intimidates his teacher. Just an immature little punk if you ask me. The other characters include Quistis, the teacher barely older than her students; Zell, the friend easily fumed by such comments as "chicken-wuss;" Selphie, the vivacious girl who tries to be so cute and air-headed it's annoying; Irvine, the cliched ladies' man that can't get the ladies; and last but not least, Rinoa - who finally gets Squall out of his thoughts of himself and into thoughts of her. I would have liked it more if the characters were mature teenagers rather than your cliched self-absorbed ones.

FF8 takes a stab at a rather unique combat system, which is great, but the problem is it doesn't work very well. You don't get money or weapons the traditional way. The money part is pretty neat. You earn a weekly paycheck through employment with SeeD, and you earn more money by being promoted to a higher rank. The weapons part is a problem, however. The only way to earn stronger weapons is by taking material to junk shops and having it made into a weapon. The problem is the game doesn't give you these items very easily. You can only retrieve these items by fighting monsters that have what you need. Problem is, you can't know what monsters have which items unless you glue yourself to a strategy guide. For those who want to play the game without a guide, or those who don't want to spend their time fighting monsters and hoping they'll drop the item you need, you'll probably finish the game still equipped with the game's weakest weapons.

Not upgrading your weapons means you'll only do minimal damage with them, so you will want to look to other sources of damage. There is magic, but magic doesn't operate on MP and is limited. It's more like a usable item, and the only way to get higher quantities of said items is by drawing it from enemies. Plus, if you junction certain spells to your characters, you most likely don't want to use those spells in combat. That leaves the Guardian Forces. These summons can do a lot of damage, and while you are waiting for them to be summoned, they protect the summoner from attacks. The GFs will carry you through the game, though they have the drawback of having to sit through sometimes lengthy summon sequences every battle. Making matters worse is the experience system. Every 1000 experience points earns your character a level, but the worst part is that enemies grow levels with you. This wouldn't be so bad, but it means random battles last longer than they should. Random battles tend to be tedious as they are, so it's awful when a game adds to that tedium.