After playing Final Fantasy VII(perhas the greatest game known to man), I was impatiently waitng for Final Fantasy VIII. When I finally got my hands on it, I had a big smile.  It was going good in the first disc, second disc, it started to go into a slump, the 3rd, and 4th disc were straight out boring.  It pissed me off when I had to fight bosses just to break Ultimacia's seal, that was dumb.
Story:
Well, you are seed, destroying monsters is your business, then they run into a sorceress who's trying to destroy the world with time compression.  THat's why she's trying to find Ellonie.  But why does she want to destry the world, that's the dumb part.  I mean come on, someone's gotta have a reason to destroy the world, Sephroth had a reason to desrty the world(Sephroth thought the human race was stealing the planet from the cetra(his race).  So to cease the humans exsistance, he was going to destry the world).  Kuja had a reason to desrty the world(Kuja was created to be evil, but he knew that the old dude created him, so that by the time Zidane got stronger than him, he would die, so he seaked the crystal and tried to desroy it, and take the world along with him), but no Sorceress Ultimacia had no reason to destroy the world.  (Hmph, nice storyline)
Characters:
This was sad: When Square made Final Fantasy VII had you emotionally attatched to the characters, in Final Fantasy VIII they made characters that you would want to forget forever:
Squall is a lone-wolf ... and a 18 year old loser(So don't call him Cloud); Rhinoa has a the face but everything else...NO(So don't call her Tifa); Zell whines to much, and goes on about dumb stuff(So don't call hin Cid); Seifer is a pitiful Mr. I wanna be the sorceress' night wuss(So don't call him a 50% version of sephroth); Irvine is a sharpshooter that's trying to act cool, but he ain't(So don't call him Vincint); Quitis is trying, but can't fill in a good love triangle at all(So don't call her Aries); Selphie, is just annoying, and she just isn't strong(So don't call her Yuffie); Laguna, is a real good character(He shoulda been the hero instead of Squall, a loser); Kiros has some pretty wicked blades, and woulda been a great replacement for Zell; Ward is big dude, but he ain't no, I'm-gonna-bust-you-up character(So don't call him Barret).  I only praised 2 characters outta that bunch(Laguna, and Kiros).  That's pretty sad.
Graphics:
The game's only high point.  The PSX never seen anything as good as this.  While the gameplay grahics are very well done,the FMV's get tha cake.  I never saw anything so freaking real.  So if you only buy games for graphics, this will be your first choice for the PSX(But FFX punched it out by a long mile)
Sound:
Pretty good sound effects and music.  I like the boss fights music.  At time to time, it makes you wanna say, bring da ruckus from time to time.  That's only the second thing that capitalized on Final Fnatasy VII
Gameplay:
Well, here's the biggest downfall of the whole game.  It was like they were master... while making the junction system.  Because it's a real pain.  No mp, like when you have a good majic spell for strenght, and you wanna use it, you lose strengh as well(Same for everything else).  The GF's are annoying, they take a while to work, and they take damage for you, but when they die, waht are you gonna use then?  And why are you stuck with something like poison, even after a battle.  That was very annoying.  And when you have limit breaks, you have to stay with low hp(you'll eventually die) or use aruas(which willrun out, and are hard t find).  Charging was easier.  This really hurt the game.
Replay value:
Heck, anyone who finished this game, had to win medals, cuz, I felt like dying just trying to beat.  Breaking the seals was the biggest pain I had.  I had to fight bosses without Limit Breaks, which was dumb.  I was about the quit, but I kept going, and somehow did it.  Then when I went agenst Ultimacia, she chose my first 3 characters, which was BS.  I mean, when she finaly picked my 3 main characters, Squall, Irvine, and Zell, it was a lucky shot, so I took it(After losing 4 painful times).  I kept Squall, and Irvine's hp low, so I can do the Renzicuken, and fire Paulse ammo.  Hell's judgment, and the biggest thorn in my side, but thanks to the bahamut card, I traded that for 100 megalixers, and ended up deafeting her.  It was a fluke.  Then I never played the game again, so as for me, so much for replay value.
Overall:
This game had to be one of biggest dissapoinment in history.  The only reason I gave it a three, is beacause it had a good ending, unlike Final fantasy VII which showed what happed 500 years later in the other ending.  This game was boring, and lacked anything of the final Fantasy name.  If you are a die-hard, hardcore FInal Fantasy Fan, the you probobly got this, but if you want to start playing the saga, for god's sake start with Final Fantasy VII.