As most already know twisted metal is a car combat game collect weapons and destroy your enemies as you drive pretty simple idea that can definitely be fun....

Summary:(Read Below if you wanted More Info)
1= Very good
2=Great!
3= HIt or Miss with the more realistic physics
4= HIt or Miss Imo due to the character design styled more like 1 & 2 than 3
Black=First and Best PS2 Twisted Metal Arguably the best Twisted Metal of All
Head On=Good Gameplay Online Mode included (psp and ps2) Spiritual Sequel to Twisted Metal 2
Twisted Metal (2012 for PS3)=Didnt play this one but heard it was good

Twisted Metal: A great game, revolutionary for video games of the first 3d era. Still a fun game and the only twisted metal with the inside the car view no saving to memory cards there was a short code for resuming your game later.

Twisted Metal 2: Most fans will consider this to be the best twisted metal of all the final release with single track after this one the game changes its physics dramatically...

Twisted Metal 3: In this installment twisted goes for a much more realistic driving feel for the cars. Now this isn't necessarily a bad thing but to most fans it just wasn't as fun. This was 989 studios first attempt to make a twisted metal game and fans trying out twisted metal for the first time tend to be the only fans that like 3 the best. However a few of the early twisted metal fans like 3 better but the game play turned off a large percentage of fans so this one is hit or miss try it you might like it best or you might not like it at all.  In the end 989 failure to appeal to a large amount of the fans of the franchise put twisted metals popularity into a downward spiral.

Twisted Metal 4: This game still made by 989 studios and after twisted metal 3 alot of the people who would of liked this game were no longer interested in twisted metal this one goes back gameplay designed to be fast and fun.  I would say compared to 1 and 2 the default characters you can chose from are less interesting and useful however you can create your own cars.  I think it was this that makes or breaks the game if you found a car you enjoyed playing you would probably like twisted metal 4 if not then your likely to turn away from it and say its a bad game.  This game attempted to incorporate features that would make hands down the best twisted metal and to some it was.  This is the last twisted metal game for the playstation 1.

Twisted Metal Black: First Playstation 2 release and back in the hands of the original creators who reformed under the name Incognito entertainment.  Best Graphics easily so far and better than even the game to come after and gameplay thats arguably just or good or better than any of the other games.  With nearly as many features as 4 including the first twisted metal game that was online capable(with a special disc not all copies could do that and official servers are shut down now)  this game is considered the best by playstation 2 fans and many fans of the twisted metal series.

Twisted Metal Head On: This is the spirtual sequel to twisted metal 2 its graphics and gameplay feel like they derived from number 2 however i would not say gameplay is quite as good as number 2 it does have all new stages and solid gameplay with new upgrade system after you kill an opponent you can collect a drop from them to increase your fire power this could be considered better or worse.