Ah yes, this is my Final Fantasy VII Review.  Those that have seen my review for FFIX and FFVII, know how I revere the Sixth game in the series.  Which, apparently, most of you have never played.  Having stated my reasons of reverance in my FFVII and FFIX reviews, Ill review VIII on its own merits this time around.
First, This game quite possibly has the most stirring and excellent FMV of any playstation game I have witnessed.  epic battles, grand dance numbers, moments of comedy, personal trauma, Action, and despair, are all rendered through CG and look throughly Excellent.  The in game graphics are remarkable as well.  Created too show a realistic, sci fi other world feel.  Space ships, sleepy meadows, and fierce monsters all look remarkable even without the looping FMV.  A true breakthrough for square.
Gameplay, This is where the game Falls Flat.  First of all... the juction system was creative and dynamic... yet flawed immensely.  Do you mean too tell me my characters cant use a potion unless they have a GF junctioned too them that ALLOWS them too use a potion?  That sounds like a little thing, but represents just how little thought was given too the junction system when creating it.  Its almost as if square wanted too make a system so complex and intricate... that they forgot tradition and past gameplay staples.  Then theres the summon animations.  Okay, Shiva looks cool the first ten times you summon her, the twentieth is repetitive, and the 100th, while watching the same minute long animation before you can actually play the game, is just not fun.  Then We have the DRAW system.  Yah, we can cheat and draw 100 spells from a weak monster.  But youll have too do it 40-80 times, per character, per spell.  which gets old.  REAL OLD!  REAL FAST!!!
The music helps too redeem the game.  While Uematsu sat on the Bench entirely in this game, much of the music that is here is well composed, and fitting.  But only the ending vocal track is a piece of music Id want too listen too over and over again.  The Rest of the music, despite being very fitting for the game, just doesnt have the staying power too warrent a non fanboy like myself too buy the game.
Lastly, The story is probably the most personal, tender, complex, and emotional tale of love that square has ever written.  Layer by layer, squall is peeled back as he finds himself leading his comrades, falling in love, and facing his nemesis.  Its the love story that eventually develops Squall the most.  And is the main crux of the game.  Other elements, like the time warping, are very well played and scripted.  Laguana's goofy yet charming shinnanegans are a perfect foil too Squall's Poker face and indifferance.  But its the supporting cast that seems too fall flat in terms of development.  We have one character in which the plot points out that he was a mama's boy as a child, but grew up too be a martial artist.  he still cares for his widow'd mother, and has a secret admirer.  But the game doesnt let you explore either of these relationships besides pointing them out too you.  This is Standrad practice for the other supporting cast as well.  Its sad that a character from laguana's past, who is in the game for a total of ten minutes, is a more well developed person then the remaining characters in your party.  Character related subquests are even Scarcer in FFVIII then in VII.  Which Was weaker in comparison with its predacessor.  Shame, since its really the story and characters that make an RPG TRULY memorable.
Too wrap up this review, I did like the personnal and tenderness in FFVIII's Story.  It was a nice change of place from the *I SHOULD SAVE THE WORLD* Tone of most RPG's.  In FFVIII, you do indeed save the world... after you grow up and learn a bit about love and maturity that is.  And the ending is the most tender and heartfelt Since FFVI.
Im glad that Square learned all that it did From FFVII and FFVIII.  For the ninth game, and onward, they didn't have too prove thier technical wizardry any further.  Safe and secure in thier mastery of technology after this game, Square has since gone back too focusing on Story and Gameplay, which are what matter the most.  Final Fantasy VIII is the best MOVIE on the playstation 1, but Final Fantasy IX is the best GAME and STORY.  and is Far more reccommended provided you WANT a story, and not an interactive movie too drool over.  If that is all you desire, stick with FFVIII Until you come too appreciate that Video games are too be PLAYED and too CHALLENGE you, not too Give you pretty pictures.