I picked up this title, a good ways back. It was a Final Fantasy I had played when it was new and then lost access to. So, being somewhat of a game collector (my series of choice to collect is Final Fantasy and Armored Core) I picked up this one pretty cheap on amazon. The gameplay itself is pretty much standard fair, of when JRPGs or Final Fantasy's were still you know. Good. I'm sorry, I can't stand in any way shape or form the horrible ATB system that Square seems to have such a hard on for in their semi turn based gameplay. I couldn't stand it in X, was even worse in X-2. (I can't call it "10, 2" It's degrading) and guess what horrible thing they are including in 13? Yep you guessed it.

Twelve gets a reprieve from this sentence because of the Gambit System and the fact that unlike 7, 10, and X-2 it actually has a plot worth mentioning. But I will get back on target now.

My biggest problem with Eight, is it has a large slew of Happy coincidence that would make even Charles Dickens cry. I mean seriously, damn.  Squall being well...Squall... ugh. Why couldn't this game be about Laguna instead? *head desk.. head goes through desk* Squall continues the paradigm set by Cloud, in that they have to stick the worst or one of the worst characters in the game, as the main character. Because the guy that makes the 7+ (Tactics, IX and XII aside) can't write good characters up as protagonists to save his life. I hate, squall. Really hate Squall. Almost as much as Selphie.. No scratch that.. more than Selfie.

Unfortunately as Squall is a core component of the game he drags down what could have been a good story down to mediocre. Every other character in this game is far better than he is in terms of character development. The plot itself is standard fanfare of a group of mercs, end up fighting some evil big bad thing bent on world domination/destroying the world (I'm trying not to spoil things here), and discover their significance in the greater scheme of things as the story progresses.

So they have a solid working core for the story, and the secondary characters stories are fairly well constructed.... but Squall... again rears up his head and smites the story down from any high heights this solid foundation can achieve. Just like Cloud.

The battle system can be turned into turn based combat (which given that there are no AI scripts for Allies, is a very good thing), thankfully. But there are hints of cracks in the franchise's integrity that appear in this game.

I think personally these cracks were evident in 7 in abundance but the majority of gamers were too busy doing naughty things to themselves over 3-D graphics to notice. 8's coming out did not receive the fan fare because by the time it came out Gamers were used to 3-D. These cracks become larger as the series progresses. At first of course it's the little things _like those Dickens Coincidences) and a poor main character... Later it becomes things like basic premise and story. All in the trade off for shinier and shinier graphics. And of course stupid gamers buy more and more into this.

My biggest beef with 8 is that reviewing it Four Games Down Later, that honestly you can see the start of Square's fall with it. And that fall started when they let go of the original Final Fantasy creator.

Eight should however be cherished though, as it in my mind is one of a dying breed. Good JRPGS. JRPGS in general need to smack themselves silly and ditch the TROPES they have been running with for umpteen years, Japan is quickly losing relevance on the stage of the gaming world, because quite frankly American and European Rpgs decided "you know what? let's make a good story, rock solid characters, and an enjoyable non turn based experience" And you know what? You can't argue with the results. I doubt anyone would disagree with me when I say this. Mass Effect and KOTOR are some of the best rps ever. Fable II easily blows the post 6 FF series out of the water.

So don't hate on Eight. Hate on it's maker. There is alot of gold left in 8 to be enjoyed all of these years later. There's still rock solid gameplay, a good enough to get the job done story (Damn you Squall damn you), and even better it's cheaper than the modern JRPGS to pick up.