In the interview from Eidos prior to The Last Revelation release, fans were promised a game 1) that returns to TR roots, 2) is puzzle based, and 3) Lara's objectives would always be clear (probably in response to all the  complaints received over TRIII).  Eidos also promised that Lara wouldn't  have to run around so much to find objects and that the emphasis on bad  guys would be downplayed.  Put simply, TLR would be a return, in sorts, to  the original Tomb Raider.
Using the Eidos interview as basis, let's look  at their claims.  First, yes, TLR does a nice job returning to TR's roots,  at least in terms of atmoshpere and looks.  That's my number one praise.  But in terms of gameplay, TLR is far from puzzle-based.  It starts out so,  but about halfway through the designers decided to return to the convoluted  ploys that plagued TRIII.  And, having just finished TLR, I'd say that  Lara's objectives are far from clear.  There are still a lot of thugs to  kill off and Lara does an awful lot of running across multiple screens to  obtain objects. (there aren't really levels in TLR; Lara passes from one  area to another--with a download time in between!)
I think the biggest  problem is that the designers simply ran out of great puzzle ideas (which  occurred sometime after TRII) where you actually have to use some logic and  your brain.  This is what made TR1 so fantastic: you knew that if you sat  in front of the screen long enough, you'd eventually figure out whatever  challenge TRI threw at you.  TLR however, beginning with the Cairo section,  becomes frustrating because it stops being puzzle based, and to make up for  this lack of puzzles, resorts to annoyingly complicated, nit-picky,  non-logic based ploys to make the game more "challenging" (and,  thus, ensure more sales of their strategy guide).  I've never had to use a  forum/walkthrough site so often in my life.  Let me make my point as clear  as possible: puzzles require brain power and logic.  Trial and error is NOT  equal to good gaming and is NOT fun.  I seriously doubt that there are many  gamers out there who made it through the entire Cairo sequence without the  aid of a walkthru.  This could have been a great game (and it was for the  first half)  The graphics in TLR are outstanding, and the Desert Railroad  level is innovative and fun.  Sadly, though, this game was ruined by  ridiculously complex, illogical levels that surrogate for a lack of puzzle  ideas.