FF8 in my personal opinion is not as good as FF7.  The story is an epic, something Squaresoft is famous for, but the way it's told is not as good as it should have been, and that, is the most nagging part for me and it just brings down the game.  Also, the materia system which I grew to love as been destroyed and replaced with this stupid junction system.  I see it's good points but it's too confusing.  Even with the in-game tutorial, and even to this day, I don't fully understand it to my personal satisfaction but good enough to beat the game.  The graphics have been greatly improved.  The people look like real people.  They have hands instead of blocks, and don't have lethal looking hair (CLOUD).  The fighting is the same turn bassed action as before and some battles can take up to 10 minutes, not a good thing when you're in a hurry.  Another bad thing is how much you have to rely on the GFs (summons).  It's nearly immpossible to beat a boss with out using them and most of them take a long time to use.  The anamaters ovously had a lot of time on their hands and decided that summoning a simple summon like brothers will have to take a couple minutes instead of a quick 5 seconds.  Sure it's great for the first few times but after a while, it gets old.  The world is completely futuristic and has nothing to do with it's title "FANTASY".  Sure it's not a big deal, but I'm just pointing it out.  The story is good, but the character development is terrible.  They have to make a game where you actually like the character you play and not one where you constantly yell at the screen calling him an idiot for doing something stupid or saying "SHE LIKES YOU, CAN'T YOU SEE THAT?!" because this games' story is based around love, yet the characters that are in "love" hardly show it, or at least the guy.  I still don't see what she sees in him.  The FMV is greatly improved and also the ingame graphics as I said before.  FF fanatics should get this game but just be warned, the story has a lot going for it, it's interesting, but the characters just make you want to scream.