I got D2 Oct 10 2013 and began playing as a Paladin. As it unfolded I saw where Torchlight
, Fate, and Titan Quest Immortal Throne got many of their ideas. It is those three games I
played long before getting D2 and I realized that I could be perceived as being 'spoiled' if I
didnt 'like' D2. I  played about 20 hours before wrapping it up and tossing it in the trash,
(i only spent 8 bucks on it and got a Ultimate Strategy Guide tossed in for free so little was
lost). Though the graphics are every bit 10-13 years old its not the reason I tossed the game
in contempt. Actually I value a game by how much fun it is to play and not how it looks <--
Ill revisit that point.
 The movement behaviors of my character were so erratic and clumsy they reminded me of how a
roach skitters across a floor. Some examples:
I click on a skeleton to attack and my paladin runs right past it to a door and opens
it....OPENS THE DOOR!!! to allow a host of other foes to flood the room ! WHY did it do
that? The door was yards away from the target ! How about standing in front of a target and
swinging and swinging and SWINGING your weapon only to whiff repeatedly. How about swinging at
a foe and repeatedly failing to connect until its reinforcements show up. How about actually
trying to close a door behind you to try and control the 'battle field'...apparently doors
can only be closed by accident. OH ! How about trying to run through a room only to have the
damn door 'accidentaly' shut in your face while foes catch up and throng around you! That
happened to me a few times but I wonder if thats actually an 'in game' spell a foe uses, im not interested in finding out. How about actually trying to use some of the objects in the dungeons for cover and your character
not only will not line up behind any protective object it will CONTINUALLY run around like a
goddamn headless chicken! It will EVEN run into clusters of foes that surround you and cut
off your retreat!....REPEATEDLY!! I swear I cant tell if my Paladin is mentally
challenged,disturbed or suicidal. its a joke! I achieved level 18 with a singular emphasis on
developing the shield battering skill. I was killed twice but both times it was a direct
result of chronic controls failure.
  All games of this nature experience the previous examples to a degree and its an acceptable reality easily offset by the fun ( D2 DOES have ENORMOUS fun potential BTW but its a potential squandered by clumsy controls....for shame. Even I (in the
real world) could preform better than my 'trained' paladin and what I wrote about a games
value being measured in fun and not graphics is spot on true. There is a game called Dungeon
odyssey thats created by Malfador Machinations. It is a 'budget title' (All Malfador
Machinations titles are), thats clearly inspired by D2 but isn't exactly a graphics heavy
game.... to put it mildly :) . That game is far more fun than D2 and I can recommend it
without hesitation to anyone who enjoys Diablo style games. It is IMHO a superior product than
Diablo 2 despite the fact D2 has ALL the ingredients for great and absorbing fun and though D2 ultimately wasn't worth the 8 bucks I spent on it even with its User
Guide, Dungeon odyssey is worth every cent and no user guide is needed. D2 is in the trash and Dungeon odyssey is still on my hard drive.. I think im gonna boot it up and work on my Paladins career.