I really did like this game while I owned it.  It's a nice attempt by Squaresoft, and I think this game really could have been a whole lot better than the way it turned out.  I give it 3 stars for its good aspects, and for the POTENTIAL it had.  Well, let's get started.
First, as anyone will notice, the graphics are excellent.  They are some of the best that the Playstation could possibly put out, from what I can see.  But, aside from that, everything else about the game gives me mixed feelings.
For one thing, there's the music.  Music is very important in an RPG because it sets the whole mood of the game and affects the mood of the player.  Unfortunately, there are not many quality songs in this game.  The battle music is somewhat blah and a bit overdramatic, and the music in towns seems a bit uninspired.  This is compounded by the fact that many tunes are repeatedly recycled.  "Eyes on Me" wasn't bad, but as far as songs of that type go, I think Marle's theme in Chrono Trigger was just a little bit better (that is, her fully orchestrated theme song, not just the little music box tune).  The worst song, though, by far, is the overworld map music.  It is so uninspired, irritating, and boring, and I know it could have been much better, considering the world map songs in previous Final Fantasy games, even the original on the NES.
Now, the storyline of this game is excellent.  There are enough twists here to satisfy those who like depth, and the story goes far beyond the simple "group of heroes out to save the world" plot--not that there's anything at all wrong with that plot, mind you.  Every RPG since the beginning of the genre has ultimately boiled down to that anyway.  Really, what stronger motivation is there?
Now, despite the good story, the game was hindered by poor character development.  Somehow, everyone seemed very 2-dimensional in this game.  I think one of the problems is that the characters looked too old.  This might sound odd, but let me explain.  The characters are supposed to be teenagers, and they have teenage personalities, but the graphics make them look like they're in their twenties.  As a result, the characters personalities don't match their appearance at all.
My other problem with the character development is Squall and Rinoa's love story.  Don't get me wrong, I like the fact that there is a love story here.  But, I don't think it was handled very well here.  Rather than developing over time or having some reason for it, it just seemed to come out of nowhere.  One minute Rinoa just gets on Squall's nerves, and the next, he's head over heels for her.  All of this happens so suddenly that it makes their relationship lose all credibility.  Squall's personality is horrible all the way up to the 4th disc, and Rinoa is just sort of annoying at times.  I think Chrono Trigger's romance between Crono and Marle was handled better.  Even though Crono does not speak, you can tell that it developed properly, over time.
The next part, and probably the most important, is the gameplay.  There are some nice, innovative ideas here, but I have the same problem with this Junction system as I did with FF7's materia:  they both take away all the uniqueness of the characters.  In FF6 and other games around its time, each character had a unique ability that only he or she could use, and the characters had different strengths and weaknesses.  But now, with junctioning, all of the characters are basically the same except for their limit-breaks.  So, there is no strategy involved in making a party.  Granted, there is strategy in the junctioning, but it's just not the same.  Also, the Draw command is far too tedious.  I think the junctioning should have functioned more like the Espers did in FF6.
At any rate though, I did enjoy playing this game while I had it, but once it was done there was really no replay value.  It has some major flaws though.  Those introduced to RPGs by FF7 and the like might enjoy it, but anyone who prefers Squaresoft's older RPGs should be careful with this one.