Okay. I was never a big fan of the first Diablo game. One dungeon. Many levels. Many monsters. Many weapons. Many left clicks. That was really it. The story was decent, but as far as "engrossing" RPGs go, it could've been a lot better.
Along comes Diablo II, and I hoped it resolved the problems of the first game. First off, the graphics weren't really updated. In Act 1, the monsters looked bitmapped, and the animations weren't too hot. As the game progressed, the graphics got a little better, but still, I don't play games for the graphics foremost; it's the gameplay that counts. And again, this is where the Diablo franchise stalls. I like the 5 different classes; it makes for terrific replay value. But then again, when Icewind Dale, Planscape: Torment, and Baldur's Gate I and II are out there, do you really have time to go ahead and play the same game again as a different character? The skills were pretty cool and the plot was masterfully written and detailed in breathtakinig cutscenes. But something is missing in this game. I found some of the quests tedious and boring, without any real fulfillment when I completed them. It was like, "go here, kill this thing, and come back when you're done." Still, I did find myself battling hordes of demons well into the night, so it did keep my interest, simply based on the fact that I wanted to kill the big dude at the end. I worked hard to build up my barbarian, and I wanted it to be all worth it. The different locations were nice, although slightly formulaic (desert, jungle, ruins, etc.), and the ability to customize your character was a breath of fresh air. NPCs were okay, as your interaction with them was limited to mostly gossip and a few quest checkpoints. But don't get me wrong: Diablo II is a nice game, and probably worth the money. But if you're looking for a real story with a "true" RPG feel (a la different characters in a party format), do yourself a favor and pick up Baldur's Gate or Icewind Dale. But if you're into tried-and-true, mindless hack-and-slash, Diablo II is your game.