It's really hard to nail down how good or bad this game is.  When I first got it, I thought it was fantastic.  And for awhile I played it every day.  But I think it gets old more quickly than it should.
In comparison to the original Diablo, Diablo 2 is a better game on all fronts.  Higher resolution graphics presented in fantastic detail.  High Blizzard standards hold true for the voice-acting.  And absolutely fantastic cinemas that continue the storyline between Acts.  The 5 classes all stand on their own very well, each utilizing different strategies to complete the same game.  And even better, the classes work well with each other in multiplayer.  The spells and skill trees add a new level of depth and complexity that is a welcome change from the static growth of the original.  The list continues to cover every fact of the game.  Of the two games, this is the Diablo to get.
The bad side of all of this is that I felt it should have been more.  In a way, it's wrong to feel that way.  It is just more of the same with some upgrades.  The repetitious hacking and clicking wore on me to the point that I stopped playing.  But that is what Diablo is and what I loved about the original.  But I tired of the original a long time ago and this one kept my interest only long enough to finish the game (so I could see the final cinema).  Aside from that, the graphics appear dithered and dated in comparison to what we are used to.  The use of 3D acceleration seems to be tacked on as a buzzword more than anything else and in many cases the software rendering is superior to the 3D accelerator rendering.  And at that, it's only for some of the spell and lighting effects.
Multiplayer was a mixed bag for me.  I got the game when it first came out.  The Realms were plagued with problems and I gave up trying to use them.  I have a consistent group of friends whom I played TCP/IP games with constantly. I never played the game in single-player mode, can't imagine why anyone would want to.  But I have no basis to judge the Realm servers on.  As they are the only means, aside from trusted friends, to protect yourself from playing with or being victimized by hacks, you'll have to decide on them for yourself.  It's all free, so it's well worth an attempt.
Had it come out closer to the original, I think my review would have been better.  But after so long, I expected something more, perhaps wrongly so.  Nonetheless, it is an excellent hack n'slash game with fantastic cinemas.  I'd recommend it to anyone with some warning of what to expect.