First of all let me say that there is a large audience who loved the first Diablo and will undoubtedly love the sequal.  This review is targeted for the rest of you who may not have caught on to the craze or the hype.
Like many long awaited sequals, Diablo 2 was destined to receive as much anti-hype as hype.  One of the biggest challenges Diablo 2 had to overcome was the treemendous anticipation and expectations that revolved around it.  I wasn't one of the fan's who were waiting with baited breath for the release, so I'll try to remain objective.
One of the nicest things about Diablo was the cool CG scenes between chapters and at the beginning of the game.  The story was well thought out and after watching the first movie I was really hyped to play.  While not a facet of the overall game, they were impressive and worth mentioning.
Another cool aspect of the game were the tons of weapons to choose from, especially with the barbarian who can use two weapons simultaneoulsy.  Unfortunately you can't leave things sitting on the ground like you could in the first Diablo.  gold and weapons go into your stash.  Once it's full anything you leave on the ground will disappear when you quit the game.
Diablo 2 is entertaining, but failed to really captivate my attention to the very end.  I found the game to be unstable on my system which meets the minimum requirements, which was a constant annoyance.  It may not happen to you, but it was a contributing factor to my level of satisfaction with the game.
One of my biggest complaints with the game is that it seems repetitious.  The hack and slash elements are fun, but RPG's have come a long way since the first Diablo was a hit several years ago.  There is little in the way of variety.  The same monsters are colored differently, given new names, made a little tougher and we're supposed to believe it's a new monster.  Eventually even the combat, the saving grace of the game, gets old after you wade through wave after wave of monsters that are far more irritating than threatening.
The other big letdown is that they really haven't evolved the RPG aspect of the game since the first one.  Unlike other RPG's (which I'll get to in a moment) the hirelings and NPC's are static and almost worthless.  You can't interact with them, you can't change their weapons and all their really good for is taking some of the heat off your back until they are inevitably slaughtered.
The game is far more interesting in multiplayer as long as your not trying to connect to battle.net.  If you're like me, however and are barely able to meet the game's minimum requirements and aren't priveleged enough to have a cable-modem, you might as well give it up.  The lag will drive you insane.
All in all, Diablo 2 is a nice little distraction for a couple of days, but it is no t the best RPG or dungeon crawler on the market.  If you want a REAL RPG and not just a dungeon crawler, get one of the many fine Interplay games on the market.  Baldur's Gate 2 may be available by the time you're reading this, but you can already get Icewind Dale, Torment (which is fantastic), Baldur's Gate 1 and the expansion pack, and even the Fallout games, which may be dated but are far more entertaining than Diablo 2.