If you don't read anything else:

If you find this game at a yard sale for $1.00 - $5.00 or online, then go ahead and get it, but in my opinion there are much better snow boarding games out for the N64, like "Big Mountain 2000," "Twisted Edge," or even "Snowboard Kids" or "Snowboard Kids 2."

Now I know that this was the N64's first snowboarding game, so we shouldn't expect the Taj Mahal in video game form here, but having played the previous mentioned snowboarding games and then playing this, there are some things that I dislike about this game. First, landing your snowboard in this game is more based on luck than skill. First, you have to press the "Z" button when you land and secondly you can't move your control stick AT ALL when you are landing or your player is going to fall over because the board is on an angle on screen. That right there ruined the game for me because it sucked a lot of the fun right out of the game. Also, if you want to try to play this game, I recommend plugging in an N64 controller that has a joystick that is still very firm. I started playing with my usually controller, where the joystick is a little loose and I was pretty bad. Plugged in another controller with a firm joystick, got INSTANTLY BETTER controlling my character in the game! Second, if you bump a wall you fall over. There are other snowboarding games on the N64 that do that, but here it seemed really prevalent. Third, the music in this game is really annoying sounding. I liked the title track, but after that I was treated to songs that had people with high pitched or dull voices yelling the same things over and over again! I would have preffered just straight up instrumental music here. Fourth, I noticed that "PRETTY MUCH" the only way of winning a race against the computer player, was to take a short cut hidden in each course. Sure you could try to out board them, but if you mess up 2 or 3 times (hit a wall or wall over) FORGET WINNING!!! Fifth, when you enter the competition events, YOU ONLY GET SO MANY CONTINUES and let's say you are playing on easy (Where there are 4 tracks) and you want to quit the 3rd race because you know you are going to lose and don't want to waste a continue. So you go to select "Restart" from the pause menu. YOU ARE BACK ON THE FIRST COURSE AND HAVE TO DO EVERYTHING OVER AGAIN!!! AGGH!!! Sixth, I did some of the time attack modes, I believe that's the right name for it. I am not positive right now.) Anyway, you have to board through certain goals (They look like a traditional marathon finish line) and I am playing the one level and the goal was on a cliff above me, that I had no chance of getting on from where I was and time ran out and I lost! WHY WOULD THEY PUT SOMETHING LIKE THAT IN THE GAME!!! Put the goal lines where people have a good chance of getting to them. Not up on a cliff, that I could of went up on, 8 seconds ago, but now I am stuck!!!

I loved the look of this game! That's why it was so hard for me to let go of the thought of getting fully into this game. I tried very hard to like this game, but I still couldn't bring myself to do that because of the mentioned above flaws. If you can overlook them, and you have the taste for snowboarding games you should be able to enjoy this game. Happy playing and thanks for reading! Merry Christmas and best wishes for 2010 and beyond!!!