This is an excellent "product" from a guy who admits he is just a "casual" gamer. He actually admits this in an interview somewhere and I think he's more competent than most designers and much  older. So there, you little whipper snappers.
My main complaint with this  game has nothing to do with the game or developers except that they should  be more careful about who they allow to start fan sites. A certain very  popular site, perhaps the best site with the best forum gave me a very bad  experience. In one of my first posts a regular there refered to me as  stupid and silly and wondered in public if I was senile. All this because I  questioned the diplomatic system in AOK, which any competent reviewer will  recognize as being a joke.  When I complained to the moderators of this  site about this abusive behavior and a general abusive behavior towards  Americans, I was banned from the forum and my ISP contacted for the crime  of contacting these people through e mail.  And now on to more pertinent  information.
I found the game easy to learn and fun to play. The  graphics were good but not great. Pretty soon I found myself relying on one  strategy. Wall out the invaders. Get to castle age as quick as I can and  build lots of town centers to expand and defend. Once you beat the initial  big invasion, the idiotic AI tends to just send invaders in little trickles  that never stop, but aren't that hard to deal with.
It's fun to use  the various seige weapons, but I didn't really bother mastering the armor  and tremendous variety of knights and swordsmen. They all looked about the  same to me with the exception of the english longbowmen. You could play  this game for a very long time, but there are lots of very good games to  play.
This is deep strategy, but not as deep as Railroad  Tycoon 2 and  Rogue Spear. It's also all tiny people and buildings. There's no zooming in  and out or rotating. The fans are kind of ummmm...well, you read what I  said above.
I only played twice on the internet and the first guy  left as soon as I knocked down his whole wall with a massive seige attack.  The game then ended leaving me without the ability to even finish off what  he'd built. My second game I used the wrong culture and after a prolonged  build up I quicklly got slaughtered by the elite teutonic knights. My Woad  raiders didn't have the ability to build cannons I found out too late. So  there you have multiplay in a nutshell. If you are winning, people leave  and call you a hack. If you are losing, they love you and possibly think  you suck.
There was no third, more experienced multiplay for me as I got  wrapped up in the incident up top and lost interest in the game.