WCW Mayhem seems like a pretty fun game at first.  You have over 50 WCW wrestlers at your disposal, the ability to take the fight backstage to one of twelve different areas, ring entrances for each wrestler, a choice of six different types of match, a smattering of weapons lying about such as bats, chairs, and - my favorite - tasers, the ability to wrestle (in all of the historical rings from  important WCW events) in exhibition and pay per view matches as well as go in quest of titles leading up to the coveted heavyweight championship belt, and the option to create your own wrestler.  Another important aspect of the game is the color commentary provided by Tony Schiavone and Bobby the Brain Heenan.  It doesn't take long for some of these plusses to start feeling like minuses, however.
I am not a big fan of the new manner of controlling your wrestler built into this game; it is much less intuitive than older WCW-based wrestling games, and I often find myself able to come up with only a very limited number of moves; still worse, I constantly find myself repeating moves I had no intention of repeating.  The announcers do at least have fun with this, talking about move repetition in disparaging terms as it is going on.  Their overall banter, though, while quite funny at times becomes repetitive itself after a short while.  Even the overexcited shouts of Schiavone declaring a victory in the ring grow stale, as do his constant calls for someone to stop the bloodbath and call for help.  I never get tired of the Brain, though; he is always hilarious.
I don't think the graphics here are much of an improvement over older games, either.  There's really not a lot of difference in audio and visual between WCW Mayhem and earlier WCW games for the Playstation.  You can fight backstage now, which is cool, but the graphics are largely unimproved and the gameplay is awkward and sometimes annoying.  I would much rather play the older WCW/NOW Thunder than I would WCW Mayhem, when it comes right down to it.