Final Fantasy 6 is arguably the greatest FF game and RPG ever made, and FF5 is another one of the greatest RPGs I have ever played, so how come this game didn't get 5 stars? Well, the load times would be a great place to start. Just like in FF Chronicles, one of the games has great load times, and the other is plagued horribly. FF6 has the worst load times I have ever experienced, even worse than all other ps1 games which have BETTER graphics and contain just as much if not MORE information ( remember Wild Arms? That game was huge, AND it had better graphics than FF6, but it's load times were very, very short, almost unnoticcable, so what the heck!?). Every time you enter a battle you are greeted with 5 + seconds of looking at a black screen, sound fun to you? I didn't think so. Every time you enter the menu you are greeted with another 5+ seconds of load time. Sure, it's only 5 seconds, but once you experience it, you will feel how long five seconds CAN feel, especially when you are used to fast-paced games (the load times are much slower than the PS1 ff's)But on to the games themselves...

Final Fantasy 6- Music- 5/5, Fun 0/5, Story 5/5 Gameplay 0/5, overall-1/5 This game is a masterpiece, the greatest RPG ever released on any system. However, given the poor load times, the fun value of this game is whiped out. Seriously, it's a chore to play it. If you have a SNES system i'd dish out 30 bucks for it if you can find it on Amazon or somewhere else. The SNES version has blazing fast load times, the graphics are better, and the whole experience is so much better. I think it is a terrible idea to release a masterpiece with flaws that whipe out any fun while playing the game. Basically, when you buy this you might as well save your time and throw the FF6 disk away, or sell it towards a SNES FF3 cartridge.

Final Fantasy 5- Music 5/5 Story 5/5 Gameplay 5/5 Fun 4/5 Overall 5/5 Now this is why this game is worth the price. FF5 is without a doubt a masterpiece, and the version on FF Anthology is great. The load times are pretty fast, the sound is great, and it has the Job system very much like ff Tactics. The job system is a phenomenal idea, and FF5 executes it perfectly. Some hate this game, but I think 5 is easily just as good as 9. It isn't as good as 4, 6, 7, or 8, or heck even Tactics, but you have to realize that FF games are so good that even excellent isn't good enough, and this one is a masterpiece, like most the others. FF5 is much more difficult than any other FF game, even much harder than 4, and you will have to battle quite often for long periods of time, and sometime this can be discouraging if you aren't into battling for a while, but other than that it is a good game. It starts off pretty slow, but as you progress it gets much better, so don't lose interest right away, just wait it out and see if it gets better for you. (When i first got ff Anthology i didn't care a whole lot about 5, but when i got around to progressing through it I found it was a great game)

Overall, This version of FF6 might as well not even have been issued, but it is definitely worth it for FF5, and 15-20 bucks is extremely cheap for these two games, just don't expect FF6 to be as fast as the FF3 you remember playing as a kid for Super Nintendo. (Still, I don't get it. Why does FF4 in Chronicles have blazing fast load times, but FF6 is plagued...).

So anyway, I highly recommend buying this game, mainly for ff5.