Nostalgic fanboys might disagree, but in my opinion, Super Mario Land is hardly a classic and hardly worth mentioning in the same breath as the first 3 NES Super Mario Bros. games.

The graphics, while terrible, aren't worth complaining about since I grew up in the NES days of the 80's/early 90's and remember very fondly how terrible many graphics were.  No, I can't defend them.  Nobody can.  It's all about whether you grew up back then.  If you did, you can better understand and appreciate the way the game looks.

My biggest grip is that the play control is pretty lousy.  Mario seems to float whenever you jump, and the same can be said for many of the items such as the mushrooms that floats once removed from a coin box, and the star as well.  Oh, and the starman music is simply atrocious.  Ignore that completely.

The challenge definitely depends on how well you can control Mario's movements because if these controls were top-notch like Super Mario Bros, guess what?  Super Mario Land would be incredibly easy.  This is because a good portion of the game is basically the first Mario game blended with elements of Super Mario Bros. 3.  The only exception is the underwater fireball-spitting machine stage which is a nice shooting adventure type experiment, and the airplane stage which is basically the same thing but in the air.

The enemy animations are laughable.  The goombas look just like the mushrooms for crying out loud!  They also resemble ugly skulls, and the koopa troopas are really skinny and malnourished.  The dry fish that pop out of the ground and go directly up are mediocre looking.  Some of the other enemies that are brand new are actually reasonable.  Oh and an enemy that goes by the name of "Bunbun" (LOL!) is really nice.  I believe this enemy influenced the Super Mario Bros. 3 flying goombas but I could be wrong.  Actually I'm not sure I'm thinking of the right enemy after all.  Oh well, at least I got to say the hilarious word "Bunbun!"

I just really hate how the first half of the game feels like a watered down Super Mario Bros. with the pipes and coins feeling like they're lifted directly from SMB.  Not *directly* of course, but close enough that the developers should have put in more effort to make the coins and pipes stand apart from any connection to SMB.

I HATE the music.  All of it.  Just really screechy and irritating bloops and bleeps that hardly resemble a melody (except for the castle theme which is some kind of cliched Egyptian music).  There's also a fairly melodic Asian theme later on that, again, is repetitive and cliched, and the game ending music is really spectacular as well.  That's it.  At least on the NES an effort was actually made to make ALL the themes memorable and bearable.

On the plus side, I like how Mario shoots fireballs.  The way they bounce and hit enemies on an angle is a nice surprise that takes a small amount of skill to master, and the size of them is quite impressive as well.  Fighting a variety of bosses instead of Bowser is definitely a plus in my book.  Oh, and the challenge is actually pretty high in a few spots such as the bouncing boulders that you have to ride over spikes.  This is pretty hard.

Oh, and Daisy?  She's a LOT better than Princess Toadstool.  By now you're probably well aware that the Princess allows Bowser to kidnap her because she's an attention seeker.  Daisy is not only more attractive, but more sensible and respectable, so you really WANT to put in the additional effort to rescue her.  In a perfect world Daisy would have been the one to face an enormous amount of success and Princess Toadstool would have been forgotten.  You see Princess Toadstool is too much of a fake, generic woman who's *supposed* to be attractive like Vanna White.  Daisy is a REAL woman that you want to cuddle and comfort.  There's a BIG difference between the two.

Instead of reaching a flag at the end of each stage, you're given a choice between two doors.  The top door takes you to a bonus area where you can get powerups and 1-ups.  Always go for the top door if you can.  This is mainly how you acquire 1-ups.

Nah it's not quite a classic but it's a commendable effort.