NBA Hangtime was originally an arcade game that continues on the NBA Jam franchise with updated roster, graphics and the ability to create a player with its own attributes. It did pretty well and eventually it was ported to the SNES, Nintendo 64, Playstation and PC. While it's a spot on arcade port, it's okay when you play it by yourself but best played with other people.

You start off by choosing to create a player or just picking a squad of two guys from any NBA team to go against the computer for 4 quarters each lasting 15 minutes. Whoever has the most points wins the game. Beat all 29 NBA teams and you will be crowned the grand champion. The game's option screen lets you choose to lower or higher the audio and sound effects, increase or decrease the game's difficulty and to slow down or speed up the game clock. As for creating a player, you choose a name and pin number, then choose a head for your player, color of uniform, how to distribute attribute points, pick a nickname and then save it all so you can use it during the match ups. You can bring up to 3 other players to play 2 on 2 matches at any time. As an added bonus, you can find online and enter various cheat codes to activate different effects, get additional players, courts and a different basketball.

The PROS: Midway gave us an exact arcade port of the hit arcade game. Everything that was in the arcade game is in here so you won't miss anything. Don't worry about the controls because it is easy to get used to. You can even customize the buttons to your liking. The create a player and cheat codes are welcome additions while the multiplayer portion proves that is where the real fun is at; especially if you and your friends like to trash talk during the match ups.

The CONS: Nothing else was added to make this port stand out; no extra modes or bonus content means that all is you do is play against the other teams. Also, no matter which difficulty level you put it at, the A.I. players will ALWAYS catch up and make sure they can beat you at the last possible second. It can get frustrating when your shots are suddenly blocked with perfect precision, get shoved to the ground with lightning accuracy and have the A.I. players make perfect shots no matter where they are in the court. You will lose games every so often and to earn more attribute points for your created player, you have to win 4 games in a row for 2 APs and that's the ONLY way to earn them. At least when you play against other people, you level the playing field enough for the game to be enjoyable.

There's nothing special about NBA Hangtime. It's a perfect arcade port so you won't miss anything if you didn't play it in the arcades. It's a game best played with other people as the A.I. players make sure you don't win by a landslide and do whatever it takes to rob you of a win right down to the last second in the fourth quarter. And there's no special ending if you do beat all the teams so this is really for the fans of the NBA Jam series and no one else. Get this cheap and make sure you have friends to play this with. Otherwise, pass this one up.