Being a followup version of NBA JAM it should have kept some of the same options previous versions had. Particuly the "dunks from anywhere" and "unlimited fire" codes. Because it's more fun to play with those codes sometimes then it is to play this difficult game. The stratagy compared to JAM is a lot harder and makes it less fun IMO, you can't just turn up the juice and kick your opponents a## in this one because the computer will always make a comeback instantly every single time, even if you get 20 points ahead all of a sudden you cant sink a bucket, your instantly blocked by the comp or it will steal from nowhere and there 3 pointers never miss even with players who in real life cant shoot for $#!%.

It is very hard to block or grab rebounds against the computer, shots don't go in nicely like in NBA JAM,  and it's difficult enough to get on fire, let alone, stay on fire with the cheating computer instantly making come backs to make it a hard to win matchup everytime... eventualy you do work out the stratagy and it becomes a challenge to win instead of being fun to play.

There are some cool new options tho, the graphics are better then the old SNES Jams and there is new cool dunks and ally oops, double dunks, and "team fire" where if you can make 3 ally oops in a row both of your teamates become on fire with a blue colored flame. The create a wrestler is a cool idea, but you cant do much then just choose heads and attributes and a nickname.. tho I dunno what more you could create for a basketball game? Maybe a whole new team or something and a cheat to get max points, you have to win 4 games in a row to 2 new atributes... ok if you have a memory card, but it sucks if you don't and all data is lost when the machine is turned. Why does it use a memory card???? The SNES versions never needed to use them, and it takes up little space on the memory card, enough to have been in a battery backup option.

Overall I'd much rather be playing the much funner versions on the SNES then this one... I don't like that there is no "unlimitd on fire" or "unlimited team fire" cheat. The code "461" does enable a cool out=door, street style court to play on which is a lot easier on your eyes then the red and orange of the usualy looking indoor courts (codes hold left, block, block ...[<200])... but unless you are playing this game with 4 people then its no fun. probably a lot of fun with a game shark, but not on its own.. and when you get through the 29 teams, there is no cool ending like on the SNES one where it showed video things of real dunks... this one just rolls credits and says thanks for letting us waste your time.