Okay, so I'm six years too late in reviewing this game, but what the hey: I just recently picked it up really cheap, just to see what it was like since I'm a huge Mortal Kombat fan. Bottom line? It's better than I expected, but not by much.
I've bought around 16 Nintendo 64 games, and not once have I complained about the cartridge format: until now. It served me well through GoldenEye, Perfect Dark, Banjo-Kazooie, Battle for Naboo, and even through Resident Evil 2. Yes the video sequences in that game were highly compressed, but seeing as how squeezing them all in was a miracle by itself, I have no complaints. It's too bad Williams didn't try any similiar compression techniques for MKT. The game feels woefully incomplete, especially when compared to the PSX version. A couple of characters were sacrificed, including Goro, Kintaro, the unmasked Sub-Zero, and classic costume changes for Kano, Raiden, Jax, and a few others. A lot of the classic backgrounds are also missing, noticibly from the original game and Mortal Kombat 2. And then there's the sound, or what tries to pass itself off as sound. While the N64 was capable of Dolby 5.1 Surround by the end of its life span, here it can barely crank out decent mono. Other reviews have said the sound seems canned, muffled, and my personal favourite: like your speakers are set up behind a cement wall. It's all true, every bit of it. If Williams had given the game better sound, I might have been tempted to ease off on it a little.
The gameplay has been carried over from MK3, with a new aggressor meter at the bottom. Thankfully, for the characters that have made it, all their finishing moves are intact, and are still cool to watch. There are also various 2-on-2, 3-on-3, and tournament modes to mess around with. The game does get stale after awhile, but it happens to all fighting games. MKT is good for a few rounds of mayhem whenever you're bored.
I don't regret purchasing MKT, but I wish Williams had taken more time and effort to polish the game, such as reshooting the actors (Brawka in particular feels cut and pasted directly from MKII), and finding a way to cram everything in. MK fans without a PSX should definitely get this. It's not completely satisfying, but it gets the job done.