As the Playstation heated up the console wars, Sega and Nintendo weren't the only competitors this time around. So N64 owners were delighted to hear that MK Trilogy would be released and in 1996, it came out and was a moderate success. But with delight came confusion and disappointment as Nintendo's version wasn't identical to the Playstation version in more ways that one. MK Trilogy turned out to be a decent and dated MK fighting game even by standards back then.

MK Trilogy is a fighting game combining all the stages, characters, game play mechanics and "fatalities" (gory special moves) from all of the past MK games into one glorious version with extra modes and options to give fans of Mortal Kombat the complete experience. Choose from one of 26 characters (plus 4 secret characters that you have to unlock) and you can either play one on one kombat, 2 player vs. kombat, tournament mode or 2 player three on three kombat. The main goal is to beat every fighter you come across and make it to Shao Khan, the game's main villain. Each character has its own background story, ending, moves and fatalities so the game will keep you busy as far as using different characters by yourself or taking on another player. There are numerous codes to enter with varying results so find a guide online and try them out yourself.

The PROS: Everything about Mortal Kombat is all in one game: the stages, characters, moves, options, music, game play, codes and secret characters make an appearance. MK fans will dive in head first and feel right at home. And the 2 player modes let you challenge another player for added replayability. Plus, no load times means every match starts immediately.

The CONS: While the Playstation version had loading issues, it turned out to be the better version overall. Thanks to cartridge limitations, the N64 version doesn't feature the extra characters found in the Playstation version and takes a big hit in the graphics and music department. Animation frames are missing which means the graphics are not as smooth as it should be. The music doesn't sound as good as it should be since it's been compressed to save space. The controls are spot on but some will find the N64 controller a little cumbersome at first so it will take some getting used to before you forget about the initial inconvenience.

What's disappointing is that had this come out a year later, MK Trilogy could have turned out better since other developers opted to ship their games in cartridges with more space and it would have helped out. Because of key sacrifices, this game will only be cherished by the fans and somewhat acknowledged by everyone else. This game would later re-inforce the notion that CDs were the better medium to make games on while cartridges had less space to work with and were more expensive to manufacture. You can pick this up cheap and I would recommend this game to the fans and those who never played the Playstation version.