Sometimes, you'll hear people say that a game is good because it takes like 100 hours to beat or something. What those people left out is that the game they're playing is fun, which makes them want to play it for 100 hours. Donkey Kong 64 has its moments, but I don't think it's fun enough to really finish 100%.. or at all. I played and loved all three Donkey Kong Country games back in the day, and I was pretty surprised that there was an N64 Donkey Kong title of which I'd never heard. But this isn't a Donkey Kong platformer: it's a mini-game marathon. It's like Mario Party, except not half as fun.

Let's start with the monkeys, which are arguably the title's greatest fault. You never, or at least I never, really felt like you're in control of an agile primate. These Kongs move far too slowly. You "run" in much the same manner that N64 Link does (rolling). But Link moves way faster than these monkeys, and and you might find yourself screaming, "Oh would you just get to the warp point already!" Furthermore, the jumping ability of Kongs in 3D space seems to be less than polished. They won't get you killed, as this game is ridiculously easy (in terms of staying alive). However, they will annoy you as big Kremlins knock you off ledges because your monkeys can't move like monkeys. Now imagine bad controls coupled knocking you off ledges with being forced to barrel roll back at 50% OoT Link's rolling speed.

All too often, Rare's solution to hiding 200 Golden Bananas throughout the game seems to be 'toss in a mini-game'. Some of them are fun, but these mini-games bring the term 'Wii Play' to mind, and that's a phrase I'm sure Cranky Kong wouldn't want to be associated with.

They want you to play with each character once in every level. This wouldn't be a bad idea if the platforming controls were better and there were a decent number of enemies to fight (outside of those two or three bonus levels). But if you want to get everything, you need to barrel roll through each level five times, killing the one or two enemies that oppose you, and exploring for the spots where Rare wants to launch a mini-game. Two of the mini-games were the original 8-bit Donkey Kong and Jetpac. They're easily the best parts of this game.

I got bored with it going through the water level with 80 or so Bananas. It's too long and it's not really that fun, but there is a lot of sort of ok content along the way. So, three stars, I guess.