You know when I sit here and think about it, does Mega Man 8 do *anything* right?  Oh sure I'm giving the game 3 stars because I'm such a big Mega Man fan and willing to defend even the worst moments of the series, but let's be honest- this game is mediocre the entire way through.  Not to mention gives the STRONG impression that Capcom tried to make too many changes and just about all of them fall flat on their face.

Let's talk about the levels.  Why does it seem like Capcom has done everything in their power to make sure these levels don't even remotely resemble the ones from the NES days?  I understand we're talking about a 32-bit system with the Playstation (and Saturn) so obviously the graphics will look significantly prettier than the ones from the NES and Super NES, but instead of running and gunning and strategically/excitedly shooting apart robot foes like most respectable Mega Man titles, this game implements too many unrelated ideas and thinks it's okay to pass them off as legitimate levels.  This is the same reason X5 failed so miserably.

Frost Man is all about riding a jetboard and jumping from section to section.  While I don't mind having most of the stage devoted to this particular feature, I do certainly mind when several levels in the game are devoted to similar ideas.  It makes me think Capcom didn't have enough creativity in mind when they made this game.  Also the game actually tells you when you jump or slide by stating it clearly "jump jump" or "slide slide".  I don't like being told what to do.  I didn't have to be told what to do in Mega Man 5 or Mega Man X4 while riding the bike.  Why do I have to be told now?  And this stage is entirely too long.  Hmmm maybe that's it.  Capcom felt an overlong jetboard riding level would wear thin on players and they thought it'd be too challenging for us so they made it so we're told when to jump or slide.  In other words Capcom knows they made the level too long!  In Tengu Man's stage, you're mostly riding on top of Rush Jet not by choice but mandatory to move forward, and battle several enemies at once.

This brings us to another problem- why are there so many enemies on screen at once?  It's nearly impossible to battle all this danger without taking several hits along the way since they all fire bullets in your direction.  This feature totally reminds me of the old NES game Gradius.  You can't really master these type of segments unless you have the patience to play the level a thousand times and memorize every enemy's location.  Anyway the first two Wily stages have more extended jet board or Rush Jet segments that hog up the level.  In terms of excitement overall the levels in MM8 fall way short compared to Mega Man 7 as hard as that is to believe (a game that was by no means perfect but better than MM8 by a longshot).

But it gets worse.  There's actually a circus stage called Clown Man, and oh boy is this stage a contender for the worst one to ever appear in a Mega Man game.  First of all you have trains that come out of the doors in the background moving on tracks.  When Mega Man appears on screen, get ready to battle them.  While incredibly silly for a concept and inappropriate for Mega Man, that's not even the main issue I have with this stage.  What I strongly dislike is the part that appears soon after where you have to wait for robots to ring bells so you can jump in the correct box that warps you to the next level up.  This is absolutely terrible and childish.

The music is really really bad.  Normally in a Mega Man game you hear catchy memorable melodies appropriate in illustrating the theme of a level.  Not so in this game.  This is all a bunch of fast-moving, unmelodic, indistinguishable techno gibberish that proves Capcom was more about making the levels look more futuristic than keeping the heart and soul of the Mega Man series in check.  Shameful move on Capcom's part.  Even worse, clearly the graphics are comparable to the ones in X4, X5 and X6 so Capcom had no desire to keep the two Mega Man series separate.

Okay this is another big issue I have with the game.  I almost never mention the voice acting since it's mostly tolerable and even irrelevant since I normally don't stop and think about it, but in this case I HAVE to mention it since it's unavoidable and overbearing.  I have to mention how much I strongly despise it.  Yes we all know that Mega Man shouldn't sound like a girl and yet he does.  However as it turns out *all* the voice acting in this game is really intolerable and way way off.  Dr. Light doesn't sound right at all.  I swear there were a few moments in the beginning when I thought he sounded like Mike Tyson!  However there's an even bigger problem than just the voices being unsuitable for each and every character.

The boss fights also have voices.  However Capcom didn't think this idea through because not only do they say really cheesy B movie-like lines before the fight begins and the moment before they explode, *while* they're getting hit they repeatedly say the SAME EXACT LINES OVER AND OVER.  This is really annoying.  Basically every time you hit them with a weapon, get ready to hear them speak.  I'd bet anything Capcom thought that making these bosses talk while taking damage would be more impactful and meaningful for action lovers, but it actually has a reverse effect on the player so it sounds incredibly cheesy and unforgivingly annoying instead.  Also let's not overlook that many of the voices sound like children speaking in an elementary school play, further annoying me with the perception that Mega Man is for children only. *rages*

Is there anything good?  Well sometimes a certain decent stage like Aqua Man might come along where you're swimming through the level avoiding enemies which is pretty fun.  Avoiding spikes while swimming in a bubble form reminds me of a certain level from Mega Man 5 where you have to avoid spikes while riding an elevator.  I have to chuckle at the way they gave Mega Man a swimming animation though.  I've never seen it before!  The Gravity Man stage is alright though sometimes generic with all the block-destroying segments that reminds me of X2.  Astro Man's stage is deplorable due to being too elaborate and maze-like which is WAY off track for a Mega Man game.  The boss fights themselves are often times slow and resemble the ones from X4, but they're passable I suppose in both design and the moves they have.  The only annoying part with the bosses is that it takes an eternity for weak points to be exposed, making these fights longer than they need to be.  Oh and what's up with the soccer ball kicking weapon.  A tribute to Mega Man soccer perhaps?  Some tricky kicking techniques are a requirement to effectively eliminate some of the bosses which is a nice feature.

Wily is boring and mostly easy this time around.  Then again compared to his second round MM7 battle, *anything's* easy in comparison, haha!  Weapons are a joke.  Completely uncreative.  Again the amount of foes on screen at any given time often comes across as disappointingly hectic without any time to catch your breath which means taking hits is most certainly a given.  These are mostly problems in the jetboard and Rush Jet stages.  Some of the enemies that I initially hated are actually okay now due to the realization that the game has so many other problems.  The robotic worms, spinning penguins, rock chucking apes (they're probably not apes but remind me of them), pearl spitting clams and several others are fun to battle.

Overall Mega Man 8 is a disappointment.  I now realize why my high school friend Kevin quickly moved on from this game despite being a huge Mega Man fan.  He had the Saturn version.  He wasn't happy with the game, and neither am I.  This was the only game he was talking about for a couple weeks leading up to the day it arrived in his mailbox.  Then after he went through the game, he pretty much dismissed it and barely spoke of it again.  I say avoid this one.