When Yoshi's Story was first released, a lot of people immediately dismissed it as either an inferior version of Yoshi's Island or simply a colossal disappointment.  Nowadays it seems people generally think the graphics are too cutesy (and they are but Yoshi's Island was guilty of the same thing, as much as I love the game).  However, much to my surprise, the actual platforming elements in Yoshi's Story are better than I was expecting, and the fact the game sticks to 2D side scroller instead of going 3D like Super Mario 64 was a decision I agree with.  For a while I actually thought Yoshi's Story WAS a 3D game.

However, graphics aside, the game isn't *always* impressive.  A few of the levels are maze-like and they're pretty bland compared to the more straight forward levels.  It's because the platforms themselves are nothing particularly impressive- just your average platforms you've probably experienced since the NES days.  Jump on top of them, ride them, jump to next one, etc.  Not that I'm criticizing platforms I hope you understand or contradicting what I say in the opening paragraph- the idea just feels a little generic or perhaps undeveloped here.  Furthermore, these maze levels are lackluster compared to the more challenging ones from Yoshi's Island.  Feels too much like some of the maze stages here and trying to copy the special level from world 4 in Yoshi's Island with the water dripping inside what looks like a sewer.

Perhaps the biggest problem is that instead of collecting 10 red coins, 5 flowers and 30 stars which made Yoshi's Island gameplay so addicting and fun, now you're collecting fruit.  Grapes, watermelon, bananas, etc.  This is not only a rather childish objective, but not *nearly* as entertaining either.  Also, another big problem, perhaps an even bigger one- there's no flower ring at the end of each stage like in Yoshi's Island.  You can actually exit stages the moment you find enough fruit.  Really bad idea, because it means going through levels in search of fruit and nothing else, and when you find the amount you need for completion... the level could possibly end right then.  The sunburnt-looking flower in the top left corner of the screen jerking his face left to right the entire game is pretty funny though!

The boss fights are an absolute joke.  Similar to the one from Mario Is Missing.  Alright the ones here aren't quite *that* disappointing (if you've ever played Mario Is Missing though, at least the NES version, you'd know what I'm referring to!) but they are soooooo much easier than the Yoshi's Island boss fights.  Significantly less strategic as well.

Oh and yeah, we can't end a review without mentioning this issue as well- there's only 24 levels.  How many levels were there in Yoshi's Island?  48, plus 6 bonus levels (plus 6 more if you factor in the GameBoy advance version).  24 is too little!  Come on, the Nintendo 64 cartridges can handle more than that.  I remember how disappointing my classmates were in 1998 when this game came out and they played it.  They expected more levels.  I can't blame them.

Anyway, onto the positives.  Many of the Yoshi's Islands enemies make a return, and despite the levels being considerably less detailed as far as item-collecting and variety is concerned, most of the stages are at least loaded with plenty of enemies.  Even when the levels feel pretty basic and uninteresting in design, you can look forward to remembering the good ol' Yoshi's Island days with the same enemies, and now presented slightly bigger in size.  Plenty of new enemies too, such as Grim Reaper Shy Guy's, extended ghosts of many varieties that serve as odd short term platforms, and spike-tossing Lakitus.

Perhaps one could complain that the returning enemies should be different in some way instead of simply copy and pasting them from Yoshi's Island, and I would agree don't get me wrong, but it's not a big problem.  I like the gigantic-sized Mario eating fish that's not quite the same one from Super Mario Bros. 3, but the idea is exactly the same- he jumps out of the water and tries to eat Mario.  Yes it's hard just like it was in SMB3, but tons of fun!  He's like a huge red (or orange) Cheep Cheep and yeah, he doesn't like Mario too much, haha.

The music is actually much better than Yoshi's Island too.  Yoshi's Island had one particularly annoying theme that some of the sky stages would present (that I like to call Broadway theater music- ugh, so inappropriate for a Mario title) but the ones in Yoshi's Story are softer and more like lullabies, or tropical-themed but still totally tolerable.  There's even a Christmas-sounding theme used in the final levels.

This game is just not that bad.  Sure the platforming often times could have benefited by being less generic and obviously we expect more from Nintendo in that regard, and the maze levels are a needless and shameful way of making stages longer, but these problems aside, if you can find this game for cheap (and most likely that's impossible unless you can download it to your Wii or Wii U) then it's worth a few dollars and a few hours of entertainment.  Overall it's an easy game, even the later levels, and the appearance of the backgrounds may be rather baby-like, but remember Yoshi's Island has similar graphics and everyone considers that game a classic (including me, it *is* a classic!)  Check out Yoshi's Story.