I was so excited to play this game after I rented it from Blockbuster Video years ago. I played to death the awesome SNES title, "Yoshi's Island: Super Mario World 2" and thought Yoshi's Story would be like that game. As a matter of fact, many gamers thought so as well but once we all played through it, we realized that while it was good, it is nothing like the SNES classic. And along with a few other issues, Yoshi's Story is great for the kids to play but for everyone expecting a sequel to Yoshi's Island, it turned out to be bad.

Yoshi's Story was released in 1998 and was considered to be the spiritual successor to Yoshi's Island. Baby Bowser wrecks havoc in Yoshi's Island so you must defeat him to make everything alright. You control 8 different colored versions of Yoshi, the lovable dinosaur where for each stage you must search out different kinds of fruit. Find them all and you complete the stage and move on through the 24 stages that are available. The game ends when you die using all 8 colored Yoshis and you must restart the stage again. After you are done with the Story mode, there's a Trial Mode (see how much of a high score you can get) and a Practice Mode (it's basically one level where you practice all of Yoshi's moves.)

The PROS: This game looked real good. The graphics are smooth, sharp and bright. The music is very cheery and fits the overall mood in Yoshi's Story while the sound effects are exactly what you expect to hear in this light hearted title. The controls are responsive so getting used to how Yoshi moves will be very easy. It's perfect for parents who have kids that are starting to discover and play video games.

The CONS: Those who are looking for the deep, action platforming action and challenging game play that Yoshi's Island brought to the SNES will be deeply, deeply saddened by what they find here. This game is BRUTALLY easy and just as you start to get into it, it's over. Yoshi's Story has 24 stages compared to the 50 stages plus 10 bonus stages featured in the SNES classic. The only thing you do in Yoshi's Island is eat fruit. There is no rescuing Baby Mario, no magical vehicle transformations, no red coins to collect or any incentive to achieve the 100% complete rating at the end of each stage other than to move to the next stage. Don't bother trying to unlock extra stages, modes, etc. because there is nothing there to begin with.

It took me 1 day to beat this game and after two more days, it was time for me to return it. I was disappointed that it was such a short and easy game. If you're a fan of Yoshi's Island, don't buy this thinking it's the sequel. Get it cheap only because you have kids and want to keep them entertained.