Okay. So back in 1996, the Nintendo already had Super Mario 64. The addition of the critically acclaimed Wave Race 64 made the Nintendo 64 even more promising over the then-somewhat-struggling PlayStation. Although it may be largely forgotten now after the relative failure of Wave Race: Blue Storm, Wave Race 64 opened to critical raves and is still a cornerstone of Nintendo 64 nostalgia for gamers.

But you know what? I think Wave Race 64 isn't really that fun! Is it a good game? Sure, it's a wonderful game when you talk about the technology relative to the time period. I mean, the graphics are phenomenal for 1996. The water is very nice, and so are the effects. The music is great. It has that soft jazz feel that appeals to people that don't work in IGN. The sound effects are pretty good, such as the "blub" sound when you hit a buoy. Heh. Blub. Blub. Blub. The announcer is just as annoying as the guy in Pokemon Stadium, but having that many voice samples in a game is something not even Super Mario 64 achieved. The guy just needs to tone down his enthusiasm. It sounds terribly hokey. And yeah. The game's physics are good, what with the waves and the water and stuff.

But you know? Aesop was right. If you are unable to succeed in something, then you are more likely to pass it off as irrelevant, or not worth it. The same thing applies for video games, and it is something I had discussed in many earlier takes. Games in which an individual sucks at are more likely to be labeled "not fun" by that individual. Well, guess what? I SUCK at Wave Race 64. I have never been able to get used to the wave physics, and I never remember specific controls. I do well enough in Normal mode, but every other mode pwns me. I was never into jet-skiing games anyways, so I am more apt to become discouraged, and I say that the game is not fun. It's a vicious cycle, and apparently the game is the victim. Oh well. I have other things to complain about. I can't do stunts, so I don't like stunt mode. (Gee. What a surprise.) And this game would have been PERFECT if it had 4-player mode.