Tomb Raider 3 was by far the most difficult Tomb Raider I have ever played. I'll admit, I used every cheat in the book in order to beat the game. But can you really blame me?
The game first starts off with an incredibly difficult jungle level, in which you have the option of finding a few secrets and then beginning the level, but regardless, you'll be jumping to a slope and then jumping over a set of spikes, and then (surprise!) jumping over another set of spikes, and finally landing at the bottom with a save crystal and a bunch of different directions to go. Don't go into the sinking sand and watch out for anything that looks dangerous because chances are, it'll be the last dangerous think you look at.
Finally, after a period of a week to a year, you've finally beat the jungle levels... WITHOUT CHEATS! Well I bet you were quite tempted! Now choose your destination. The strategy guides all tell you to go to the Nevada Desert, and then to the South Pacific, and then London. If you watch the entire "Story So far..." feature, you'll notice that the game plays the scenes with South Pacific first and Nevada Desert last. So nobody cares what order you do it in, it doesn't matter much. And believe me; you WILL get frustrated either way, so go to the one you want to go to first because it will take you FOREVER to finish that section of levels.
Finally, after God-knows-how-long, you finished the whole globe, and get this; you did it ALL WITHOUT CHEAT CODES! I congratulate you. NOW WE GET TO GO TO ANTARTICA!!!
Yippee.
Antarctica is incredibly difficult, and it ends with a big, mumbo-jumbo mother-of-all-spiders human-headed thing. Oh, and one shot with the rocket launcher just won't kill it! And one thing to keep on mind, one-hit K.O. As in, if it hits you once, it will kill you. Good luck!
But in spite of all of that, I really enjoyed seeing Lara in new costumes and playing in her new house. It was a lot of fun to get the racetrack key and find the shortcut at the racetrack. I must say, I really did enjoy Tomb Raider 3.
If you like challenges, then Tomb Raider 3 is definitely for you. And regardless, the Mansion is definitely worth the 5 dollars that Tomb Raider 3 now cost at Game Crazy. But, if you're anything like me and do not enjoy getting so frustrated over a horribly pixilated British woman in a jungle tomb, then get ready to memorize "L2, R2, L2(2), R2, L2, R2, L2, R2, L2(4), R2, L2, R2(4), L2" if you want to beat this game!