If this were a review purely about content, then Redemption would get a well deserved 5 stars.  Unfortunately, the technical problems drag the entire game down.
The bad:
Horrible pathing!  Your party members block you all t he time and walls trap you sometimes.  In Neverwinter Nights, party members would just scoot out of the way when you needed to get by them.  In Redemption, you need to move around your party.  I can deal with that, except you're constantly put in scenarios where your 4 party group is traveling through a tight corridor, and needing to go backwards is a nightmare.  I finally gave up and switched control to the lagging member and used that character to move back.
In most other games I've played, you could just 'shove' characters other characters out of your way.  That's the best way about it, because when you're mid-fight, the last thing you want to do is reposition a stubborn party member who just won't get out of your way.  Absolutely abismal pathing in this game.
There's not much pizazz to the weapons and armor available, either.  Guns and ranged weapons are pretty useless in the game, and I've found sticking with the good old shield and sword works better.  Again, I blame the developers.
There is little to none available as far as support, and I've only found one patch so far.
The Good:
This game contains THE MOST engaging, engrossing and interesting plotlines I've seen in a game.  The story content is unparalleled.  You follow Cristof Romuald, a crusader knight of the dark ages who fights in the crusades.  He is wounded and nursed back to health in medeival Prague by the beautiful nun, Anezka.  You begin the game playing Cristof as a human, and you follow the character through his Embrace and change into vampiric state.
The game is based on White Wolf's 'Vampire: the Masquerade' and 'Vampire: the Dark Ages' tabletop RPG books.  The designers of Redemption did a good job of bringing WW's material into the game, and do so in a way that is pleasing to a V:tM fan yet still easy for a beginner to digest.  As the plot continues in the game, Christof's sire and friends explain to him about the vampire clans, vampire origins, etc. etc.  I had my doubts about getting this game because I doubted a game could do justice to WW's publications, but after playing it, you really can't help but enjoy the story.
Basically, you play Christof through the ages and travel through Prague, Vienna, London, and modern day New York.  He's basically on a path to redemption (thus the name of the game is Redemption), and depending on how humanely you act throughout the game, you may or may not receive redemption.  (A humanity score is kept.)
With the gaining of experience points, you can buy skill points, and with enough skill points (strength, dexterity, intelligence, charisma, etc.), you can buy discipline points.  That's where the real fun is at- the disciplines (vampire powers).
Multiplayer is ok.  I heard Redemption's multiplayer capabilities referred to as "Neverwinter Nights Lite."  There's not much by way of video-gaming you can do on multiplayer, but you can hold campaigns and assign a storyteller.  The storyteller holds GM powers and can access each player's advancement menu to grant exp, control players, speak through players, spawn items, and kill or revive players.  So if you'd like an alternative to tabletop and currently play V:tM, you can definitely check this out.
This game is definitely roleplay heavy, and they speak in Ye Olde English (at least Christof and Anezka do).  It's not to say it's corny, though.  They may say "thee," "thou," "thy," and "hath," but the dialogue and voice acting is *fantastic*.
Despite the (inexcusable) technical problems, Redemption offers the richest content and voice acting I've seen in a game.
I truly hope that game developers will pick up V:tM to base another game on, and hopefully, they'll do justice to all the fabulous content they put in it by making it sufficiently playable.
It's really worth picking up if you're like me and are more an RPG fan than a hack and slash powergamer.  If you want a game with a rich story, this one won't disappoint in that aspect.  But be warned of the pathing, lack of support, and other gameplay issues.