Okay, there is one thing indisputably spectacular about this game: the graphics. There's no arguing this fact, they're absolutely awesome with incredible cutscenes and very smooth performance--no jerking movements or  dialogue skipping. Transitions are seamless and the whole effect  compliments the game fantastically well, Nihilistic did not turn this into  a graphics symposium and you won't lose the plot in their  splendor.
Unfortunately, that's about the only really wonderful point  about the whole game. Don't get me wrong, I didn't find anything tragically  flawed about the experience, this -is- a very fun game, especially after  having played the pen-and-paper version for so long. There is a solid plot  behind the entire thing, and interesting dialogue (though it gets a bit  pathetic at times, and I bordered on wanting to slay Christof myself as he  bemoaned his fate and forbidden love.) But is the plot particularly  inspired? No. Is the roleplay that engrossing? No--though, to be fair, I've  yet to find a game that really lives up to the what roleplaying ought to  be. Is the combat exhilerating? Not in the slightest.
Most of my  complaints revolve around the mechanics of the game. If you're looking  solely for an action-oriented game, skip it. Though it might bear some  resemblence to Diablo in the way combat is visually represented,  disciplines (read "spells" to those unversed in the White Wolf  lexicon) are cumbersome and trying to use them in the middle of combat is  almost more dangerous than it is helpful. The player is faced with  exceptionally little creative opportunity in combat situations... just keep  clicking on the bad guy, and try to stay out of the way of your team so  they can join in too. I never felt my heart jump into my throat, or my  stomach shrivel to the size of an orange when faced with combat in this  game like I have in others--it's just not that exciting.
The soundtrack  is good, but repetitive. After about ten minutes in a new area, I was  pretty much over it.
So, what the heck am I saying? This really -is- a  fun game, but it doesn't live up to the hype (which may be making me overly  critical, but I don't think so.) Go ahead, buy it, play it, you'll have a  great time; but don't expect to stay up all night into the wee hours of the  morn slaying evil ghouls and denizens of the night.