The Good: It was designed by Ravensoft (who have a lot of Id people on their team) and it's running off of the Q3 engine.  Graphically, it's gosh darn purty.  The lighting is superb and the architecture, creature designs, and weapon designs are all top-notch (as one would expect from Ravensoft). The only graphics niggle I have is that the mouths aren't made of polygons, but are synced bitmaps (of course, to date, Half-Life is the ONLY game to get that right).  The missions are, overall, interesting, with a nice mix between puzzle and action.  A lot of the missions include team members who are more than just grunts (many of the scripts work trigger individual members for individual tasks).  The puzzle missions are, for the most part, well designed and more interesting that the standard key-find quests that are typical to the genre.  The sound is very nice too, although I wish they had included explicit EAX support.  The one "stealth" mission, in particular, made good use of that.  Most of the weapons are quite interesting, with all of them featuring a secondary fire mode -- the default phasers, in particular, are very fun to use, I love beam weapons.  I especially liked the rationalization for the traditional FPS Bad o' Weapons: a portable replicator that you carry with you.  And finally, the Borg have that cool laser-eye thingie that's just oh-so-cool. :-)
The Bad: Well, it *is* Voyager.  For the most part, that didn't bother me, although the long (and uninterruptible) cinematics involving the REAL LIVE (tm) voices of various actors got on my nerves.  There's also a certain cloying PC-ness to the game that annoyed me, especially given that it IS, after all, an FPS.  The game's attempts to sanitize a massive kill-fest left me a bit woozy, at times.  The plot is also less than impressive, although (frankly) it was more interesting than most of the Voyager TV episodes I've seen, and it was more than adequate for a genre that is often allergic to the whole notion of plot.  There were certain points where the game suffered from "What do I do now?" syndrome, although nothing too bad (when it doubt, look for a tunnel to crawl into).  Likewise, on Voyager, the doors are unlabeled so one is often required to blunder around in the between mission phases.  On that note, some of the architecture is a bit "crowded".  This is especially true on Voyager where there are loads of fake doors that you can't enter (and I just HATE that in a game).  The game length is a bit short (but I've been spoiled by Half-Life, so take that with a grain of salt).  Finally, the great big bugaboo of most FPS's -- The AI: it sucked.  All too often, the game resorts to simply swarming you with enemies.  There were few cases where you couldn't even discern that there *was* any AI (although there were a couple of great skirmish sequences where the enemy actively sought refuge behind crates).  In terms of combat, much of the game resembles Doom.
Overall, I enjoyed it.  I'd recommend it if (like me) you're feeling a bit starved for a decent FPS.  Just don't blow any significant amount of money on it.