I've never played Vampire in tabletop roleplay so I'm not quite sure how  true the game was to its predescessor. But it was still a very good  introduction to the system for me.  I learned about magic and lore and the  differences between a ghoul and a vampire and a human.
The main  character, Christof, was very interesting to play.  My first nervous twinge  about playing a vampire themes games was "Ew... so I'm going to play a  bloodthirsty commando?" but as I progressed through the chapters I  found that I was in control of my own destiny.  I could try to be kind and  just or I could be as  cruel a jerk as I wanted.
There were some  annoyances like the lack of saves and the utter confusion of combat and  lack of tactics (You pretty much just mobbed a monster with everything you  had and hoped it was enough) but I've heard that this will change soon with  a patch.
The game progresses from the days of the crusades to modern  times.  I didn't care much for the time jump (It would have been much  cooler to slowly progress through time to modern ages) but that might have  made the game ten times longer that it was, so that's just a small  gripe.
The characters of Christof, the holy knight turned Vampire, and  his love Anezka, whom he searches for out of guilt and out of love are  wonderfuly done and made the story more real.  The dialogue was well  written and made up for the messily done hack and slash fests one must take  to progress through each level.
Another really great feature is the  multiplayer capabilities.  One of the things that makes it so great is that  a person has the option to be a game master in an adventure and control  just about everything.  It's really great to be able to craft your own  games and so far this has been the first one I've ever seen with this  option instead of running Quake-like through a maze and killing everybody  in sight.
Overall there were some innovative options in this game and it  was well put together, just the combat was a little confusing at times and  the lack of saving points made it difficult.  Still, I think that the good  points outweigh the bad.