If you can find a copy of this game going cheap, by all means get it, as it's a great little shocker - but be prepared for some seriously lame graphics. And I do mean primitive. This was one of the earliest PS1 games, and it shows, which is a shame because the actual idea and concept are great. A crazed killer is on the loose with giant scissors and it's up to you to unravel the mystery and find out who he is and what he's up to.

There are plenty of good points to this game. One of them being that is really does present you with a mystery, and if you don't follow the clues provided, your investigation goes straight to a dead end and all your hard work ends up in a Game Over scene complete with credits that tells you that you have failed to solve the case. Quite brutal in a way, and daring, even, to treat the player so harshly. It happened to me, and I had no choice but to begin again and this time try and make some more well informed choices when given the chance. Once you get it right, the game takes you on the full journey to the climax of the story, which is well worth the effort.

So how is this story brought to life?...well, with the dreaded words "point and click". Yes, it's sad but true, the action in "Clock Tower" is completely mouse click operated, which means that you will be moving a cursor arrow around on screen with your D pad and clicking the X button when it's on hotspots to start action and make choices. For the WHOLE game. Be warned that if this sounds like something you have moved on from, you might want to think twice. However, then think a third time, because...hey, whaddya know, it works! The exploration, the combat, in fact all character movements and interactions are  done by clicking somewhere on the screen, and once you get the hang of it, you're away.

So let's get onto the gameplay. This is a game of fear and surprises. The villain of the piece, "Scissorman" can leap out at you at random points in the game and pursue you relentlessly until you either hide, run far enough away, or find something to stop him with. (Or get killed). Combat such as you may be used to does not exist in "Clock Tower", but it really doesn't matter. If you make it through to the last level, set in a sprawling castle, you'll have the gameplay mechanics well and truly in hand. It's by no means easy, though, and towards the end you'll still be in danger of blowing it all and getting one of the several endings other than the one "good" one, if you're not super observant and quick witted.

But castles, shock tactics and gruesome deaths alone do not make a game, and as I mentioned, you're going to have to work with truly dated graphics to play this baby. I'm not complaining, after all, we're talking about the earliest days of the Playstation here, but I really must make it clear how primitive it looks - especially now that we have moved up to the sophistication of it's PS2 third incarnation which allows full directional movement and 3 dimensional areas to run about in.

But hey, "Clock Tower" is the father of them all, and it deserves it's dues. Checkout screen shots on the internet first (if you can still find any), so you know what you're in for, and then brace yourself for an exciting dip into retro territory. And yes, it will STILL make you jump!