Risk has always been a great, classic game, and thought its been quite some time since I sat down to play the board game, and being that I just picked up the Lord of the Rings Edition of the Risk board game, I needed practice and I figured I would give 'Risk II' a try.
Risk II is definitely fun.  You can play alone, using computer AI to fill in where the other players would be, making for some great practice for when you play with your friends.  There are many different AI opponents to choose from, and presumably these different opponents use different strategies when you play against them.
There is a Simultaneous Battle mode that has you coordinating attacks at the same time that your opponents are.  It is easier to play with computer AI, since with human opponents it tends to take a while, or the game ends up ending in 3 minutes.  However, it is a very interesting way to play Risk and I enjoy it.  There are multiple options to choose from, such as setting the number of batallions you receive for controlling continents, how many territories are open(for example: Hawaii and some outlying islands are often closed, but may be set as territories), and how territories are distributed at the start of the game.
Battles are animated, which is a nice touch, and the graphics, while nothing impressive, are nice enough to look at for a while.  I give the game only 3 stars however because of the AI issues.  Sometimes, the AI opponents can be just absolutely stupid, barely putting up any challenge whatsoever.  But being that you are playing against a computer, it seems that the computer is prone to cheating...or at least, having just a wee bit too much 'luck' with the roll of the dice.  To this day, I will never know how my invasion force of 40 batallions lost to a defender force of 11...only 11 defending batallions!  Its things like that which kind of diminish the fun in the game, because for any player, AI or not, to have that much luck when they're the last territory in the game is, for lack of a better word, completely unprecedented.
Regardless, the game is fun to play, and is of course always more fun when you have more than one person playing it.  The computer AI serves as great practice and if you're just looking to waste time, and overall the game is a fine single player experience, even if the AI just happens to have unrealistic amounts of luck.  I recommend this game to any Risk fan, as it should keep you entertained for hours on end.  I'm already hooked, though when it comes to competing with other people, I prefer the board game.  The AI just fluctuates too much between being stupid and skillful, often going to extremes in both cases.