A few months ago I picked up a copy of Donkey Kong Land III at a local game store and had a pretty enjoyable time making my way through the game. Because the titles that make up the GameBoy Land trilogy are so inexpensive these days - and given that I'm much more taken with retro games than current ones - I wanted to make an effort to try out the other games in the series. Long story short this is another solid game to add to any GameBoy collection... but unlike Land III the original game isn't quite as smooth in what it offers.

One of Donkey Kong Land's greatest strengths is while it contains the same gameplay as the Super Nintendo games, the level design is not directly ripped from those titles. This might seem like an odd thing to champion (and you really need to play the rather disappointing Donkey Kong Land 2 as a point of comparison to know why I'm stating this) but this makes the proceedings feel fresher than they would otherwise be. The importance of this comes into play late in the game when the player enters the final world (the city levels) which is unlike anything in the SNES trilogy. Ironically this is where the game almost falls apart. These levels are home to a rather significant difficulty spike and while it's kind of welcome (since the Donkey Kong Country on the Super Nintendo is ridiculously easy) it puts an obvious strain on the experience. Additionally, the controls and character physics in Donkey Kong Land take some time to get use to. Donkey Kong and Diddy don't handle exactly like they do on the Super Nintendo. Jumps are much more "floaty" in this version and the Kongs move through the water with much less resistance. This will definitely throw players off at first but thankfully they will adjust and be able to compensate very quickly.

However, beyond that there really isn't anything else that holds Donkey Kong Land back. The game is an inexpensive and is easy to come by since the Land series games were produced in a pretty robust quantity and become part of Nintendo's Player Choice line-up. The only thing that really hurts Donkey Kong Land (and its sequels) is the fact the original SNES games were ported the GameBoy Advance a few years later which most players will probably opt for over these. Still, I think the Land trilogy is worth picking up despite the issues that hold it back.