This review is written in light of owning a copy of Armada 2, so I will begin by saying that if you can find a copy of Armada 2 (they've become somewhat rare) then I reccomend that title over this one, but failing that, this is also decent.

Armada has several flaws that keep it from being a truly great game, but several nice touches as well.

Armada fails in it's strategic edge for gameplay, and further in the simplification of both Borg graphics and the function of various ships.  In this game, the ships you produce behave much like footmen in Warcraft 3, the only difference being that your ships can be seen dogfighting and shooting each other with phasers and from time to time, being assimilated.

The function of ships also carries a few flaws, and the races are diverse enough to offer a few different options to battle, but for the most part, the same strategy works for any race: Blockade an enemy base and use built (or captured) artillery vessels to pummel its defenses until you can safely attack with your battlefleet.

The games economy is also overly simplified, starbases produce officers, a unit cap, each starbase you control adds to your crew pool ( a resource you will never find yourself running short of) and dilithium moons provide the only demand resource.  Gameplay therefor has the same frustrating tendancy seen in Starcraft, victory is a function of who can gather the most dilithium the fastest, and not a question of who can outwit thier opponents.

The scaling on the ships is also terribly off.  A Soveriegn is a fine, powerful ship, but it should not be able to singlehandedly eliminate three borg cubes, and although I understand this was a balance issue, I feel that it ultimately detracts from the games potential.

The next borg related quam I have here is the borg art.  They have chosen to use a mesh-like mass to represent the borg utilitarian look, all wires and pipes and stuff showing on the surface, but it rather just ends up looking like a big green (or try pink as your player color, that's really funny) blob that is only reminiscent of a borg cube.

Where this game shines, and it does a little, is in its singleplayer campaigns, which have a decent set of storylines and some good voice talent.  The federation campaign has the benefit of Patrick Stewart and Micheal Dorn, Stewart reprising locutus for the borg campaign, and as a special surprise to those who were her fans, Denise Crosby returns as the wily Admiral Sela, to champion the romulan cause in a souped up D'Deridex.

Overall, it's not a bad game, but given that Armada 2 exists, it pales and loses a lot of its appeal.