This game is boring get the one for GameCube if you can that is much more fun.this is great if you plan on buying it to use it once and to never use it againI have to say first, i love the idea of oblivion. And while i do find the game fun(ish) i cant help say some levels are way to complex. Remember the original zeldas lost woods? Yea. Way to much of going in circles somehow. I love the turok bosses. Sisters of despair being my favorite just because they sound bad ass! Never beat it without codes as it was way to hard to find wth i need to go. Cool guns. Love the cerebral bore! But in all not a game ill pick up and dusting off anytime soon. Havent played 3 or rage wars yet but the first is better overall. Save the blood and gore is intense being a nintendo game! If u haven't played and were a master at nes zelda games-this just might be a great oneyou run around,look for extremely hard to find switches and wander some more then well you know look for switches and well you then its ummmmm wander some more.then somewhere in the midst of all this maddening insanity,a cool monster will jump out and you get to waste his butt with a dynamite lased arrow.then its back to the wandering.The biggest grip that I had was the controls.  They just didn't feel right and I got killed more often then not just trying to walk or jump.  Alltogether a decent game though.This game's graphics and animations are very well done, and the story line is above average.  The thing that in my opinion makes it average is how long the levels are (coupled with the ridiculous Death Throes, more on the later).  It reminds me of the days of Jaws and Friday The 13th games for the NES where the levels dragged on and on and on....each level in this game will take you at LEAST three hours to get thru and not only that but youll have to back track thru old levels to get new keys and items etc.  After a while it gets to the point where you get tired of it and quit.  And one more thing this game seems to have been made for a bored teenage kid or adolescent, there are no puzzles or challenges to keep you intrigued, except for the occasional switch to find and that gets boring. The game is basically just kill this dinosaur and watch the blood spew forth, while it goes thru a ridiculous Death Throe.
Considering how long the levels are use the cheats some have mentioned and you should get a lot more enjoyment out of it (at least that way you won't have to be backtracking all the time).  Buy this game used.I played this game for week's years ago against a friend or 2 and it was great fun on multi-player. However when I played it one player I hated it. I thought it was too slow and real dodgy. But that was before I actually sat down and gave it a real go. And once you master the sliding/skid turn booster trick, it becomes a lot better.

To do that; you just hold the R button down when going around bends and corners and tap the analogue stick in the opposite direction 3 times. The smoke goes from white, yellow to red then you let go the R and you have a slight boost. Once I had learned that it plays a lot faster.

Overall, the graphics good and the levels are much bigger then the previous SNES version. But it lacks the same competitiveness and fun of the original version. But don't get me wrong, it is great for playing with friends, but it is a different feel from the original.

In my opinion the best Mario Kart out is the GBA version because it is the SNES version with more tracks! (the original SNES tracks are unlockable in the GBA version!) But none the less, this version stands out on it's own.

This version I didn't find to be as fun as the SNES one for a few reasons. They should have had more racers to choose from. And I miss my favourite driver the little Koopa Trooper, instead he's been taken out to make way for a slower Wario. But once I'd mastered that thing to take corners with, it was easy to place 1st in the 150cc.

Overall, I give the one-player game 3 stars and the multiplayer 4.

Cons: Not enough tracks and courses. Once you've mastered the courses on 150cc, there is no further challenges for you in single player mode.

- Not enough drivers to choose.

- The sound effects can be very annoying after a while (like Toads Whoa-Whoa-Whoa-Whoa sound)

- No way to turn the objects off (like banana peels and the hazards of the coarse... it is really unfair sometimes)Mario Kart 64 Launched with the N64 and it sure did good with the sales but Ultimatley this is disapointing.  Mario Kart Succeds in graphics departure but Fails at the boring over and over gameplay that you indure in the game.  Don't get me wrong this is a great game but it just pretty much fail to fun factor.  Back when I got this game when It first came out I simply loved it but after the next day it kind of got boring for me.  The game is great but fails with the overuse of boring driving and nothing exciting happens.  If it were up to me I would have addes some really cool Driving maze level(yeah it does sound lame but what ever)

In Graphics the game is simply superb.  It really does make the N64 a really good lookin' system.  The level desighning and great setups make it one of the better looking N64 back in the days when it was still popular..  It truly does make some Ps games look like crap.

The sound is pretty average...ehh I rather not go into that..

NOW.......The gameplay..

It just get's boring after awhile and nothing special happens and the single player is pretty short.  But cool......

And that's pretty much it.

The Multiplayer is pretty fun.  I had a blast playing it with my friends.  It really is fun but like I said before...Nothing special.

When it all comes down to this.  The boring yet kind of fun gameplay, Great Graphics but doesn't help gameplay, Really fun MP but still fails to succeed in fun factor(well atleast to me)

I give Mario Kart 64 a 3.4 stars out of 5

Lates..Azure Dreams isn't really like other RPGs. It's actually more of a random dungeon game. Like Chocobo Dungeon and Diablo. These games really seem to  fit into there own category these days. Also it has a monster training part  to it where you brought you monster in the dungeon to fight for you. Also  within the game is a very weird part of plot. You get to sees the faces of  the women you have gotten to become your loyal women while you save. If you  run the story correctly on all of them in the end your basically the town  pimp.
As far as game play goes when entering the dungeon you are always  brought down to level 1 and only able to take 5 items inside. This is an  annoying thing. Your monsters do not loose levels but as they survive they  loose magic and leave way to fast. Also to keep your weapons in poor shape  early you well have problems with rust traps, which lower their quality.  Also there are items they raise the quality of the weapon and shield (only  equipment you wear) threw the game called sands. A good thing to remember  is gold swords do not rust, neither do diamond or mirror shields. Without  knowing that the game can get pretty boring faster. The game is very  repetitive. You end up doing the same thing over and over again while you  get to the deeper levels of the dungeon again and again. Even though they  change every time it does get old to meet the same monsters hoping for a  sand so you can get to the next floor again and again and again. I fell  asleep while playing this game at least six times.
As far as plot goes  the plot within 27 hours of playing you well forget the game had a plot and  you well only be reminded in the very end.
The graphics to this game are  sprits. They are not poorly done sprites but I have seen higher quality.  There are many different looking monsters and every couple floors the  dungeon's floor takes a new appearance. But eventually it does some  repeating and none of the pictures are that beautiful.
And finally as far  as length of time it can stay interesting it depends on how patient you  are. This game involves a lot of patience. Even though I fell asleep while  playing it many times I enjoyed it all the way until I beat it, but if you  are going to play it its defiantly a buy game and not a rent  game.
Overall this game is not for everyone, but if your very patient and  you have a lot of free time to see a weird game that combines monster  raising, dungeon exploring, and... RPG style control to dating. Get Azure  dreams.DO not get me wrong.  I am one of The BIGGEST Zelda fans in the world. and I bought this one as soon as it came out with the gold cartige and  all.
But this Just isn't a Zelda game....
Its missing the Fancy tunes,  the story just doesn't seem that addictive.
WHen you first get the game  its great and it looks to be one of the best games. but then after you beat  it.... its kinda boring...
Zelda games should never get boring! Zelda NES  I STILL paly that damn game.' Link Not as good as the first but still I  like playing it. Zelda A Link To the pass on SNES is the BEST Zelda game.
I just cannot love this game.. it did horrorble for a Zelda game.Maybe its me, but Half Life is too crude to be an engaging play.  Been meaning to play it for years, but never got to it.  I played Half Life 2 first, and that is simply the best experience in gameing I've ever had.  It is brilliant.  I can see how 2 is a derivative and continuation of 1.

But after a few hours, I simply could not take the constant jumping/missing/dying.  And the totally totally obscure paths through each scene.  The long passages with no health.  The obscure mazes and constant times of being squished.  After a while, I became so frustrated I simply stopped playing the game.

There were some jump/fall/sqish episodes where replayed the silly jump part over 100 times.  I think that the playability is dated, just like the graphics.  The peculiar movement, where you always run, and have to press shift just to walk and not fall or overshoot where you're trying to get to, is simply not a current way to control movement.

All in all, a charming prequel to the best game ever.  I'm sure this game was truly groundbreaking 7-8 years ago when it first shipped.  But by today's standards, its not for me at least.  I cannot wait for more from Valve, as they are fantastic.  But this one, I'll pass foreverBetter than the second but not as good as the first.  My brother got me this as a birthday present in 2001.  It didn't finally beat 100 percent until 2008 and it took me four days.  After that I beat the second also in four days.  Boy did I take my time or what.  Anyway.  The music was better than the second and the boss fights but why did they have to go by that stupid three hit rule.  Like with the second game N. Gin should've been the final boss.  The ending was stupid and not worth it.  I really still can't stand the fact that Tawna wasn't in it.  She really is cold hearted.  Crash has a picture of her in his home and yet she's nowhere to be seen.  I guess that means even though he risked his life to safe her she wants nothing to do with him.  How this game got ruled by everyone as the best in the series is still something I'm trying to figure out.  But it still is a good game.This is the third game in the main series of Crash Bandicoot. This game has outstanding gameplay and visuals. It's a Crash game, so you should know it's good.

So, here are the final results of the review.

Graphics 9/10 or 4/5

Sound 8/10 or 3/5

Gameplay 10/10 or 5/5
This game is also the seventh best selling Playstation game.i played this game at a cousins house but i don't play games as long as i use to any more i love the level when i play as his sister and ride a tigerCrash Bandicoot Warped
I have always loved the Crash Bandicoot Series. The original three on the Playstation were good, and the ones that would follow were always decent. I went back to play this classic and discovered it was just as great as I remembered. Still, it does have its low points.

Graphics- 8/10
On the original Playstation, these graphics were fairly good. The characters look blocky at points, but it sort of adds to the appeal. Voice syncing is pretty well done. Levels and characters are interestingly designed. The fact that most levels have another level that looks similar doesn't really bother me. They change the levels up enough to where it feels like you are playing a different level.

Story- 3/10
This is the part of the game that is a huge letdown. Neo Cortex, our antagonist, starts the game off exactly like he was left on the second game...falling from the sky. After failing to stop Crash Bandicoot from capturing all of the powerful Crystals, he plummets from his exploding spaceship and falls into a mountain. Inside of the mountain just so happens to be Uka Uka, a powerful witch mask that appears to have been giving Cortex orders all along. Uka Uka was trapped in the mountain by Aku Aku to keep the world safe. Now Uka Uka has escaped with Cortex. Uka Uka quickly recruits Dr. N. Trophy to build him a time machine so he can find the Crystals before Crash Bandicoot was even around.

This honestly doesn't sound too bad. Until you see Crash and his friends at home. Aku Aku hears Uka Uka's evil laugh and senses danger. Then you suddenly appear at the time machine that Cortex is using and now you are using it. What happened to Cortex? I have no idea. How did you find your way there? Who knows? From there you use the time machine to get to the Crystals before Cortex.

Sound- 8/10
I love the music in this game. Every level type has different music, and it works for every level. If you are in an underwater level, you will hear mysterious sounding music. They just did the music very well. The voice acting is top notch as well. Sound effects are the same old Crash Bandicoot sounds though. It's not the best video game sound, but it's still really good.

Gameplay- 9/10
Gameplay can make or break a game. Luckily the Gameplay made this game. They added more variety than any of the previous games in the series.

Crash Bandicoot is basically a side-scroller except the camera is behind Crash instead on the side. You are still on a fixed path that you have to follow. Sometimes you will even enter a part of the stage that is a side-scroller. The gameplay has always work very well like this.

Warped is the third game in the series though, and they needed to add something new. They did just that by adding: Power Ups, Flying levels, underwater levels, jet-ski levels, and motorcycle racing levels. Power ups are gained whenever you defeat a boss. You get small things like double jump and belly flop at first. Later on you'll get a Laser Guided Bazooka and Running Shoes, which really change up the gameplay. One thing that I am happy about is that the Power Ups actually help you play the game. They aren't just useless add-ons

The new level types are just what this game series needed. The underwater levels play like a side-scroller underwater. It's enjoyable to swim around instead of walking. Jet Ski and Motorcycle levels are great vehicle levels. I admit that the controls on the Motorcycle levels take some getting used to, but that is what makes it fun. The flying levels are probably the coolest new things. There are only three in the entire game. You fly around in a plane and shoot down opposing planes. There isn't much to it, but it's a nice break from the other levels.

Difficulty- 5/10 (Note- This is how much I like the difficulty)
This game is extremely easy. You can go through the entire game without dying. Not just that, but the entire game only consists of around 3-4 hours of your time. One strong afternoon of playing, and you'll be done. The bosses on this game can become a little difficult, but it only takes a few minutes to learn their pattern. Also, I felt the final boss battle was too easy.

Overall- 7/10
The gameplay is extremely strong. The story for this game is just all out of whack. If you are looking for a quick game to pick up and play, this is for you. I suggest checking out the previous two titles first though. They are&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Crash-Bandicoot/dp/B00000I1BQ/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Crash Bandicoot</a>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Crash-Bandicoot-2/dp/B00000I1BR/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Crash Bandicoot 2</a>. They are better games in my opinion.they sacrificed the create a character mode but in its place are like oodles of wrestlers.this game was made during one of wrestlings hottest eras.probably still is.so the wcw had lots o cash to hire lots o wrasslers and thats why theres zillions of them up for grabs.theres the regular wcw guys,the nwo,luchadors,ravens flock,japanese superstars,losers youve never heard of before,and every other gang from that time.the only real problem is the game is very simple to beat.now im not normaly one to complain about easy video games but this game got beat literaly in under 4 hours after i bought it on every level.its better if you're getting this for a kid i guess.Grand Theft Auto - Circa 1997

GOOD:

- The roots or start of a super popular franchise

- Sort of fun and different in it's own way

BAD:

- Really, really dated graphics, even for its day

- Gameplay is pretty old and controls can be tough for some

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:

- A Top-down run and gun game where you steal cars, kill people, and live a life of crime

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Grand Theft Auto: London 1969

- Grand Theft Auto 2

- The legend of Zelda: A link to the past (but a lot more urban and violent)

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- There is a version of this game for Game Boy Advance

- There is a version of this game that comes packed with Grand Theft Auto: London 1969

- All three levels (or cities) in this game later on became their own Grand Theft Auto game, example the first level is liberty city which is the city from GTAIII, The second level is Vice city which is the same city from GTA: Vice City, and last but not least is the third level San Andreas which is the same city/state for GTA: San AndreasI dunno... I loved the concept, but the control kills it.  I don't like having to push a gas button to walk!  Thankfully they fixed this in GTA 3 & 4.  Those games are incredible.  Buy those asap!!
I am giving the game 3 stars for having to cojones to bring this kind of gaming to the world.This is a totally new spin on Quake II. It is different than the computer version, new levels, new missions, but the same new enemies from Quake II on the computer. There are around 16 levels with 30 missions. What I mean by missions, is that in each level you have stuff to do, such as collect explosives, then place them to blow up a power grid, or realign a satellite dish. If this sounds complex, don't worry just walk up to something and it is done (quite brainless). This game is your stereotypical shooting game, you run in a first person game, with one of seven guns you can pick up and with this game you get a full 360 degrees motion with your gun, so its more than shooting straight. With other shooting games you fight against waves of monsters, in this game there are pretty much 10 - 20 creatures per level, making the levels go by quickly. This is a pretty good game, the only real downfall is that there are only 10 - 20 enemies per level, making the game go by pretty quick and easy. However the second to last level is totally different from the previous levels making it nearly impossible for the player to complete (Several death traps when the previous levels have no death traps).The 5 star review is for the n64 version only.  I liked the pc version ok, but somehow in a weird backward move, I believe that nintendo actually fixed this game.  I will probably be in a minority in this comment, as many hardened ID fans would vehemently disagree with this statement.  Fun times on the n64.The game arrived on time and worked great.  The problem is it isn't a very good game.  Quake II is a game played just for the deathmatch and only on the PS1 and only if you have analog sticks.  If you want to play some old school fps deathmatch try the ps1 version just make sure you have 4 duelshocks and a multitap.this quake game i a little better than the first. it was okay. like i said in the other review if you like this type of game that its for you.Have you ever sat for hours playing one particular video game and you can never find out what to do? This is one of those games. Although it does hold a great assortment of fun weapons and great graphics, but it's hard.  You don't just go around firing guns at everything. Although I did not like  the first Tomb Raider either, only because many of the enviroments looked  exactly the same though. They both are good games but if your not willing  to put a lot of time into video games and just play for fun like me, your  not going to like this one.I've conquered hundreds of video games, but unless you have serious amounts of free time on your hand the tomb raider series is not for you.  I especially don't like having to get a hint guide to progress through a  game.  The first tomb raider was difficult, but not unreasonably so, the  puzzles made sense.  The second one introduced a troubling trend of hiding  the solution to puzzles in nonsensical places, and forcing a player to  backtrack and turn up the brightness constantly.  In this game it is  virtually impossible to figure out swiftly where you need to go or what you  have to do.  With larger levels come an increasingly frustrating inability  to simply figure out what you're trying to do in that particular level.  I  finally gave up after defeating two areas.  I refused to buy the hint  guide, but after flipping through it I was enraged at how impossible the  programmers made it to find the extra weapons and ammo.  The game is  tough enough already without having to defeat levels with just your pistols  if you don't buy the hint guide.
Why the hell can't they just make the  game fun?  the first one was just about right.  I'll never have the amount  of free time necessary to enjoy this series, which I actually love.  I have  more fun just wandering around and jumping then trying to defeat needlessly  obtuse puzzles.  The only area really up to first tomb raider standards are  is the south american levels with the giant statues.  ARGH.I had a positive but more negative experience with this game. I did beat it a few times at the final level, defeating Bowser. But, the game crept me a couple of times. I could not fully control the buttons on the controller in order to figure out where I (Mario) was. Plus, there were some enemies that were scary and immortal. I could not stay in the water for too long or else I would die. However, the game was the first 3D Mario adventure type with cool graphics and so.

I rank this game the second in the list of most difficult Mario games (maybe 5 as total) ever. The winner is Super Mario Bros. 2 (in my opinion).Okay this game is the reason they created difficulty settings. Some of the stars are just plain infuriating to get. And it has the exact same plot as every other Mario game. OMFG Bowser stole Peach whatever shall we do?! Get an ugly princess or something! And where the hell are the king and queen anyways?! The hats were also poorly implemented. The Flying cap is hard to use, the metal cap is rare, at best, and the computer can still see you when you use the invisible cap. They should have stuck to the 2D side scroller. And also where is Yoshi?! The fact that in later levels the edge of the map is always a bottomless pit is also frustrating.I was looking for a cheap way to take advantage of the system's 480p capability.  I found this after looking on line and it arrived reasonably fast.  The cable preforms fine except that when ever anything kicks on, ie dishwasher, refrigerator, furnace, in our house I get flicker on the television set.  Now it isn't enough to return the product as I bought cheap and received cheap.  I may go back to the cables that came with the system and live with 480i.

Just beware that when buying cheap you have to remember that you get what you pay for.THIS GAME IS SO EASY THAT IT IS BEYOND BELIEF! and I mean that, too.  Some people think that they're the GREATEST nintendo players of all time just because they beat Super Mario on the N64 console.  Big deal.  This game is incredibly, (AND I MEAN INCREDIBLY) Easy.  It's okay, but nowhere as near as good as Zelda.  However, if you want a game that's excellent for the N64, get this game.  Here's my pros and cons for this highly wonerful and yet laughably easy game:
  PROS:
  Wonderful graphics.
  Addictive gameplay.
  Every now and then there's puzzles that are mildly challenging.
  Un-predictableness with the creatures in this game make it fun.
  CONS:
  Awkward camera angles.
  Too easy that you should beat it in about two or one month.
  Controls are weird and at times confusing.
  Graphics are good, but at times there are major glitches.
  This games levels look alike every now and then.
  The plot sucks.  It does.  Save the princess and jump through paintings and destroy Bowser.  Come on!
  Bowser bosses are not difficult at all.  You can beat all three of them in like less than a day if you try hard enough, (I did it in one day, true story, I SWEAR)

  And there you go.  Hopefully this review helped somebody out.Sim city 3000 is great for people looking for a game that is fun, pulls you in, mildly addictive, and not too complex, the unlimited version only offers more building sets and other things that some people would pay for, but nothing relavent.

From 1 to 1oo, this game would get a 40, why? Becuase it just isn' that good of a game, I'm an expert ing gaming and pcs and have been in the business since windows 95. But this game is made for the average "dumb american", that is why it is so simple, and lacks any depth. This game is perfect for teenagers, soccer moms, and stud people, but anybody who likes a good challenging game shouldn't even look in it's direction.

These are the good things about the game....

1. It has playability value but not much, from 1 to 10 maybe a 3, becuase once you master it( spoiler, it takes about a hundred years to get a size million in a city) you just don't give a damn about playing it again.

2. System requirements are low, and it runs on the most ancient pc that is feasible.

3. It's easy to learn to play, and inexpensive, and the graphics are pretty good for those who care unless you get to close( highest zoom).

4. You can voyage out of reality and build a city of imagination.

Now these are the concerns about the game.

1. The game has very little realistic qualities about it, it is not in check with the real word, even the information bar suggest it was mad for kids.

2. There is no names for streets, no district and area setting, and no combining indidvidual parks to make one small, medium or large park( Different small or large parks placed to getting but functioning different ans seperate is not realistic).

3. There are not as many tax forms as they are in the real world, and the maps are either way too small or only show the central part of the city, which is also unrealistc, since all large cities have metros.

4. The max loan size is way too small, and the interest is a bit extreme.

5. The airports don't generate as much income as they should.

6. There are not nearly enough mass transit options in the game, and the availabe ones are very unrealistic. The train option is just horrific, and the subway us expensive and not very fun to build,( they were probably thinking that the game is about cit building, but transportation is a huge part of any city over 300,000) the highways are basicly useless and very expensive and difficult to build, and there are no underground building and other types of roads and highways, and no street lights and signs.

7. It is just about impossible to get a city size of over 4 million even on the larget plot availabe, and even when thinking this is just the central part of a city and the metro is not shown on map is still not feasible, since the large us cities have far more than 5million people in there central part.

8. The game crashes and is racked with bugs.

all in all you see why this game gets a 40, if less, this game is not just that great, hopefully they will fix atleast 60 percent of these major flaws(anything less is unacceptable) in the next simcity, and as for simcity 4, lets not just go there,and there will not be a five, ( I believe maxis is not in operation anymore and has just not announced it), but the city simulation industry is still wide open and the demand is high.While the game itself is quite good.  I enjoy playing my copy of the game, and still find new interest and challenges of running cities.  The replay value should be obvious as there is no "end goal" to meet, though there are "rewards" along the way.  There are several problems, however, particularly when compared to Sim City 2000.  First, there are no scenarios.  That is a pity because the scenarios often enhanced the value of the game.  Second, you cannot for your own landform in the New City mode before you start the game (again, unlike SC2000).  Both of these problems were later corrected for the later cousin of the game: Sim City 3000 Unlimited. Additionally, the online support is much better for Unlimited.  The building downloads on the official website are minimal, and the building design tool is not supported by the basic game.  Still, I will have to admit that 3000 is still a vast improvement over the previous version.  The buildings are better designed, and they really do look different on different sides.  Also, the graphics are much better over 2000, while they are not vastly improved in Unlimited (which is essentially the same game, with the additions above AND additional buildings).  I would recommend that you do buy Unlimited over this version simply because of the vast number of updates.  And, with the release of Sim City 4, it is highly unlikely that even the Unlimited website will stay up much into the future, and it certainly will not be supported any more.Simcity 3000 is a good simulation.  The graphics are outstanding, the music is ok, it is fun to look down and see vehicles driving on the streets and the people walking around.  Even the sound effects match with the specific area of the city you are looking at.  For example, high-crime residential areas feature sporadic gunfire, rapid footsteps and the clanging of a chain-link fence.  the bustling commercial areas feature heavy traffic noises and sirens, and industrial areas have heavy truck and machinery noises.  You control the layout of the streets and the zoning.  Then the city develops itself, according to land values and access to transportation.
The not-so-good:  When areas become blighted and buildings are abandoned, the buildings become black boarded-up boxes that no longer resemble the original building style-- for example, a twelve story apartment building, when abandoned, becomes a three-story black box with boarded-up windows.  You cannot have suspension bridges cross above highways or city streets.  ALL the streets intersect (no way to build overpasses, except highways crossing streets) There is no way to build elevated rail lines-- the railroad must cross every street at an intersection.  Also, you are mostly restricted to a north-south street grid system
Overall, this is a great game.  I just felt like pointing out some flaws that might annoy some people.Sim City 3000 is good game, yet it is the hardest game I have ever played. The main problem is getting money. I can never get any profit at the end of each year. Sure, I can use the $100,000 cheat code, but it only works once. Another problem is getting the people to work. Even if you put residential areas (where they live) next to industrial areas (where they work), they still might complain that it is too far to go. Some good things about Sim City 3000 is that you can build famous landscapes. Also, the graphics are great! If you are considering buying this city-building game, I would suggest The Sims or Roller Coaster Tycoon instead.At first glance this game may look easy but its not. You could spend many hours just trying to figure out what everything does and even more making your numerous attempts at unsuccesful cities. The graphics are pretty good  but you need an intense system for the game to run smoothly. Maxis has once  again added their own humorous touch to the game which can add to the fun  factor. You probably won't get sick of this game very fast. If you are  looking for a huge improvement over SC2K you won't find it here. I have made  this game sound bad but it really isn't, this a very fun and challenging  game and would reccomend it only to one who likes this particular genre.A password feature. Graphics that are lacking for the PS1 era.

There is no saving in this game at all. The original PC version, which I own 2 copies of, as well as DOOM 64, DOOM 2, and DOOM 3, all have saving features. Not only that, but the teatures are very gradient, reminiescent of the old 3D Maze screensavers on older Windows machines. The graphics could have been smoothed out a bit more. There are games on the PS1 library that have better graphics, and on the original DOS version of DOOM, there were better graphics.

The controls are responsive and fluid, the music is damn awesome, the game comes in a special padded longbox, the gameplay is fun (but repetitive, due to the password system that sucks), and the level design is excellent. There are more postives than neagtives when regardring DOOM on the PS1, but the negatives are major screwups that irritate me. It's a great game, but i recommend not buying this port. Go play DOOM on an ATM or something (DOOM on an ATM: https://youtu.be/D0rStdHowAg?t=7m16s).ps3 picked it up though and it was a great time having flashbacks of playin this as a kid, awesomeWCW Thunder is more of an upgrade to WCW Nitro it includes a larger roster of wrestlers to choose from and more game modes plus areas to wrestle in. You even get to choose different faction like WCW, NWO, Four Horsemen, WCW Wolfpac, and LWO. Its has faster gameplay than Nitro and you can finally play with up to four players via multi-tap if you have one and three other friends. The game uses actual entrance footage from WCW Thunder broadcast when you start a match to show the wrestler coming to the ring and you even get a vs screen with who you are fighting as. You get alot of game modes like battle royal, steel cage, which weren't in WCW Nitro by the way plus weapons that are outside of the ring. You get to choose from now WCW Thunder, WCW Nitro, Starcade, Halloween Havoc, Souled Out, GAB, Spring Stampade, Uncensored, Saturday Night, and others.Now, being a big fan of the hit TV show, I was a little skeptical at first if the game would bring down the integrity of the show, but in the end it did not. South Park isn't a great game, but if you love the show you will definitely enjoy it. You can chose between the four main characters: Kyle, Cartman, Stan, and Kenny. Usually, I pick Cartman because he is the funniest one out of the group and has the best insults. They implemented the same humor they use in their TV show, so the sound samples keep you the most entertained. The point of the game is to save your town from evil turkeys, aliens, toys, clones, and what not. Each level gets kind of repetitive, so the game can be a little boring. There is not much variety to it, but let me reiterate that the voice samples do and will keep you entertained. I give this game credit for the humor, sound, creativity, and graphics, but it lacks in level design and keeping the gamer entertained through other means rather than sound.

Overall, I rate this game a 3 out of 5 because although its cleaver and funny, the actual game play of the game is not that exciting. If I wanted humor, then I could just turn on the show.This N64 title was exclusive for N64 at one point but that doesn't really matter.  South Park 64 looked really promising at first and it truly was with it's shocking yet really great graphics some what game play.  And I was looking forward to one of the things South Park is best at.  Stupid Funny plot.  It kina had one but ends up failing AND I LOVE SOUTH PARK IT'S ONE OF THE BEST SHOWS OUT THERE.  But for a game it's just..AVERAGE.  Nothing new just run and gun but I liked the whole senario stories like the visitors and the Turkey episodes.  Those were great.  The game starts off really well as you battle your way through vicious Turkeys but once you beat the Turkey boss it just drags on with the same ol run n' gun and then fight the boss with nothing New.  It's just the same ol' same ol.

Graphics are really good and one of the best on the N64.  It really shows what the N64 can do.  One of the best parts are the bosses cause there 3d animation is sooooo good.  But that is just it...Graphics... Now lets get to the problem

Gameplay gets really boring after awhile.  Really...It's just the same ol same ol but the game is great for Die Hard SouthPark Fans.  I thought the game could have bin better but hey It wasn't But They still try to do a good job.  But still...Gameplay is just a lil boring..

Sound is perfect...Trey Parker and Matt Stone do a great job as teh voices of those crazy boys.  Sound is great ok!

Pros

Graphics

Sound

Voices

Cons

Gameplay is just way to boring and a bit tedious

Seems like playing the first Episode over again

The ending is sooo crappy I was really expecting something big and cool but just same lame ending...Then again it's just a game based on a show but seriously.

Over all I give it ....a

3.2 out of 5 stars

Get this game at your own risk but I recomend Chef's lUv shack...Much much betta and fun mini games.

LatesA decent game. It was interesting to see where the SC series got it start from, but in the end you're better off playing SC2-5 depending on what you're main focus on the game is. I can see why people like it, but it's not worth the hunt for it.Or so the prologue goes in the Soul games.  This game came out on the Playstation, before the Soul Calibur series.  You might could say that this is a prequel to the Soul Calibur series.  Anyway, I bought this title after I had already played Soul Calibur II and Soul Calibur III.

By the time I bought this game, I was already accustomed to the great graphics, fluid movement, and responsive controls of the PS2 versions.  That is the reason why I did not enjoy Soul Blade.  I am sure that it must have been top-notch back in the days of the old Playstation, but today, it definitely cannot compare to Soul Calibur III.  The basic idea is the same though.  You have a small cast of characters who are seeking Soul Edge.  Soul Edge is a sword with magical powers.  It consumes the souls of those who use it.  However, in return, they stop aging and they obtain combat powers that exceed that of even the very best warrior.

You might want to buy this game and add it to your collection, if you're a fan of the Soul series of fighting games.  However, I would not recommend buying it if you actually want to play.you just drive tanks around and blow stuff up.its just like that.the objectives are very decieving.itll say like just go over across the bridge.but the bridge is across town and on every corner is a team of tanks armed with lasers, nukes,mines and all kind of nasty stuff.me and the ol lady beat it in one afternoooooooooooooooooooon.so what to do then?well theres a really great deathmatch section.go there and play your friends.the computer is a bit more powerful than on the regular game.by a bit i mean HELL KICK THE CRAP RIGHT OUT OF YOU.so be careful.whats also fun is to go into a big city on death match like san fran sisco with a buddy and kill all the computer players as a team.then just go around and level the whole city brick by brick.one very cool thing is the nuke.you set it off and well.......youve heard all about it in school.try it out.its awesome!Its a bit harder than I remember it being and controls are rather awkward, takes a bit of getting used to... also, can't use analog setup.The other night one of my friends picked up the new Twisted Metal game for the PS3. After playing for a few minutes, a wave of memories came flooding back into my mind of the original vehicular combat game (well, besides Carmageddon), so I had to dust it off and throw it in the other day. To my surprise, I played for a couple of hours and found myself still enjoying it.

It looks awful. The controls are pretty unresponsive. The computer is unforgiving and the other cars are almost always at an advantage. So you must be wondering, why exactly did I enjoy this game? Maybe it was the nostalgia factor, but I think it was more of the fact that the game is so simplistic that you can jump right into it and play it without having to sacrifice a ton of time to do so. I beat the game in under an hour; there are only 6 levels to play through, each one amping up the difficulty. Players are not really rewarded for progressing through the game over multiple playthroughs. It is this lack of replayability that factors into my rating of the game.

The characters are memorable. There are 12 in total, each one coming with a ridiculous backstory.  Just about every one of these characters is balanced, offering enough of a challenge to make you think through your actions. Will you select Mr. Grimm, with his ultra powerful weapons, or sacrifice speed for a bruiser that can take a lot of damage, such as the monster truck? The bottom line is that there is something here for everyone.

The violence is so over the top that it's comical, rather than graphic. I won't focus on the story, because there isn't much of one. The game centers around an annual competition, in which the last "man" standing is granted a wish that he can use to get anything desired. I think it goes without saying that you're not picking this game up for the story line. At the end of the day, the game feels dated. Passwords take the place of save features, and the game has an arcade feel to it. The soundtrack is just good enough where it doesn't get annoying, but it is repetitive and far from memorable, having a heavy metal feel to it. In the end, don't expect to be overwhelmed by the games presentation. However, that does not mean that you shouldn't play this game if you haven't already done so. Any fan of video games or the Twisted Metal series can still appreciate this classic.I have played this through several times because the puzzles are excellent and you kill zombies.  There are many puzzles I still haven't solved and I may end up playing though again just to see whats there.  Also, some of the graphics were nice and I love the fear, even though I played RE's 2&3 first, this one scared me the most (but being the first I played, only RE2 gave me nightmares for months).  I will agree, this game is hard core, and there is plenty to like about it.  I love interactive movie feeling like Final Fantasy VII and Wing Commander: Prophecy.
However, now I will list what I didn't like.  Why I only gave it three stars.  Well, to start off, the cinematics are not only outdated, but horribly done to begin with.  If I made the game, I would have just said: "Y'know, that was really bad, let's just not have a cinematic."  Also, the movement is quite shabby and fake looking, and while a zombie hovers into a standing position, you can't shoot him until he is standing up and walking toward you.
If you think that such a picky thing about positioning, picking up items is worse.  You can commonly at a position in which you appear to be facing an item perfectly, but you can't pick it up, because it's really 30 degrees to your left or something like that.  With these positions, you are forced to listen to mind-numbing music.  I thought the sound effects were bad and the voice acting made the sound bad enough, but they had to go and give us the abolute worst soundtrack you will ever find, for any game or B-Movie.  The only trouble with the music is that you require listening to the sound effects to survive, and so you must endure the music as well!
However, the music is beaten in abysmal-ness by its dialogue.  The script is terrible, and to say the voice acting is laughably bad would be a huge understatement.  It doesn't end there.  The pitiful dialogue scenes do nothing but tell one of the most cliche-ridden plots ever devised.  You have police traitors, huge creatures that come out of rooms that you just came out of to kill you, and worst of all, you have about three dozen times through the two stories (which are almost identical) where people walk in just in the nick of time to save the other.  That type of stuff makes me sick.  You are alone for about two hours, when suddenly a trap goes off, right as your partner happens to be right outside.
Lets rate everything: Images: 8,  Movement: 5,  Script: 1.5,  Sound Effects: 6,  Background Story: 5,  Music: 0.5,  Voice Acting: 0,  Puzzles: 10+,  Mosters: 5/6,  Weapons: 8,  Fear: 9.5,  Plot/Sequence of Events: -2.Twisted Metal started the whole car battle racing genre for the game consoles, but it was not the first of it's kind.  For that you have to look to the British video game Carmageddon.  It was the first and IMHO still the best one out there!

Both games now look a bit dated, but for sheer fun and mayhem, they can't be beat and Camageddon is the deeper game of the two.This is not a bad game to play. But I did not really like as much as I thought I would.Tenchu: Stealth assassin - Circa

GOOD:

- Easy and fun stealth gameplay

- nice/tight controls

BAD:

- Really dated graphics

- Stealth gameplay can be overly simple

- Little replay value with not much to unlock

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:

- Ancient Japanese samurai and swords theme

- Ninja Stealth gameplay, more fun hack and slash then overly complex (think more Metal Gear then Splinter Cell)

- Two playable characters one male and one female

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Tenchu 2: Birth of the assassin

- Metal Gear Solid

- Siphon Filter

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- Getting a better ninja rank at the end of missions unlocks much better itemsThe first Tenchu to come out (which is the reason why there isn't a number behind Tenchu) and the first Tenchu I have ever played, also the Tenchu that forced me to fall in love with the series. When I first played the game it was love at first sight, no one-night stand here, this one's a keeper. The game takes place in Feudal Japan; the game starts at the time period and impressively stays there through the entire game. You won't find anything you wouldn't find in the time period (Yes, Feudal Japan did have guns). Some people would complain about the over-exaggerated bloodshed and the sometimes-cheesey dialogue. I must disagree with these people these two factors made me enjoy the game even more. "What the hell!?! Why would that make a game better?" You maybe asking, well those two features made me feel as though I was watching an old Japanese Kung-Fu movie, minus the kung fu that's how I believe you must think of this game to fully enjoy it. After watching the ending I believe that's the effect the creators wanted to put in this game, after seeing the end sequence yourself you'll know what I mean. Of course the bad camera angles sometimes made this game annoying. In order to block your opponent's attacks you must hold down which a lot of the time backed you into a corner.... The reason I only gave it three stars? I don't think this is a game for everyone, that's why. I believe this game will be a rare collectible in the future, so buy this game now and save yourself future trouble.Not the greatest, but gets the job done. For the price I cannot complain, it is pretty delicate, but it is rubber what do you expect/If you didn't like the original Twisted Metal don't bother Reading this review -- nothing substantial has changed in the sequel. If you liked the original Twisted Metal don't bother reading this review either -- there's plenty of new cars and tracks in the sequel. If you don't fall into the above categories, read on. The Twisted Metal story is simple. Each year, a dozen-or-so misfits and malcontents meet for a battle royale in souped-up cars straight out of Death Race 2000. The last person alive gets any wish granted by Calypso, the man behind the Twisted Metal competition. Your job is to take control of one the these cars in a variety of locations and then blast your opponents to kingdom come. Graphically, the game is identical to the original Twisted Metal. On the plus side, the landscapes are richly detailed and the battlefields are complex. On the minus side, the texture-maps still look horrible up close and clipping and pop-in is still plentiful. The game also controls much the same as the original. This means you will eventually choose your ride based on a combination of 1) how cool it looks and 2) how often its handling doesn't make you want to throw your controller through the TV screen. This time around, there are plenty of tracks and a wider variety of vehicles. It appears that Single Trac listened to the folks on Usenet and included cool new cars like a hearse, a bulldozer and a grotesque man/car thing, Axel, that gives me the willies. Also new to this game are "special moves" that anyone can pull off. These include a freeze ray, a shield, and reverse weapons.
The game still shines in the two player mode. Life doesn't get much better than chasing your buddy around in a cop car and nailing him with a tazer. In fact, if you are into two-player games, there's no reason for you not to buy this game. Overall, Twisted Metal 2 is a cool game with plenty of replay value if you like beating a game 12 different ways or are into two-player games. It's just a bit surprising that the game looks so much like the original. I guess they decided "If it ain't broke, don't fix it".This was a Christmas gift from my grandmother and even though I like the game but to me it was a major step down to the first game.  The boss fight were a major disappointment mainly because of that stupid three hit rule.  N. Gin should've been the final boss not Dr. Neo Cortex.  The final boss fight against him is just a stupid race and you only have to hit him three lousy times.  He has a blaster and yet he never uses it.  The ending was a major downer because it falls horrible short.  The soundtrack is at least great but not as a good as the first games.  Tawna being dropped was a mistake because it made that whole adventure in the first game feel like it wasn't worth it.  I can't believe she dumped him shortly after he rescued her for Pinstripe.  He tried to kill Crash in order to keep him from rescuing her.  Now that is cold hearted.  Still is a good game but not as good as the first.This is a good and fun game but after you beat it 2 or 3 times you lose all interest.Today I posted a review for Silent Hill for the Sony Playstation in the interest of fairness I figured I'd post a review about Resident Evil. Like Silent Hill I played and beat the game within a week of it's initial launch. I didn't have alot of gripes about the game being as I was blown away by the very idea of a survival horror game. Let alone playing such a game for the first time in my long gaming history.

The music and graphics for this game are by no means good to todays standards. Back in the day as with Silent Hill they were top notch or very near it. As far as puzzles go, Resident Evil had both passable and challenging puzzles... nothing that took away from your gameplay or experience which was a nice touch.

As far as gameplay this Resident Evil game, Director's Cut, was my favorite up until Resident Evil 2 and more recent Resident Evil 4. As I said with Silent Hill neither game is better than the other but I would strongly recommend skipping this game for this system and get the Resident Evil Remake for Gamecube.

The remake enhanced not just the graphics but the over all story and appeal of Resident Evil, the original classic survival horror game. In closing I have to say that I graded this a 3 as I did with Silent Hill, they are two different kinds of scares and two different worlds but the graphics and dated sound leave me empty. All-in-all a must buy for any Resident Evil fanboy or person looking for a quick cheap thrill.advertised as more durable then they appear in person..but they are tight fitting and completely more protection..then say..Nothing and they do look more style-ish then plain..A decent ps1 classic but not really true 3d platformer like croc or mario64 of the same era. I never understood why crash is restrained to levels that are basically hallways, very linear, not much depth. Yes you still get '3d' movement but its restrained by limited levels so it almost 2.5 d in a sense. Graphically this was one of the noticably low polygon games that suffered from flickering and sometimes missing polygons on characters and levels. the 32 bit era polygon games have not aged well. Graphics suffer from texture warping, poly flickering and jaggies and it doesn't help that the ps1 had the worst video ram,system ram and resolution of that generation of systems. This has to be a very common game from the ps1 era, I cannot understand why people think its disc based version is worth north of 20. Hello people, wake up, there is a psn digital version for 5.99. Since when does a digital psn re release warrant a skyrocket in disc version prices. The value of a game should be based on rarity and a greatest hits game that has be re released digitally is anything but rare. Do yourself a favor don't pay more than 10-15 for the disc version anymore and your over paying. I see crazy prices on auction sites like 40 and above seriously is it worth it to pay 34.00 over to have a plastic disc.Though officially the 4th installment in the MK series, Mortal Kombat 4 followed one upgrade game, a compilation game, and a Sub-Zero spinoff game, making it around the 7th actual produced game for the series. It was the first game to utilize a 3-D engine, and the first MK game to feature weapons combat.

While the 3-D engine was a refreshing change of pace after the stale, sprite-based animation of the previous entries, in truth MK4 gets dull rather quickly. Without the 3-D engine, it's pretty much the same as previous installments, only with less characters and less finishing moves. The idea to finally drop the silly finishers like Friendships and Babalities was a good one, but once you go through all the finishers and stage fatalities, you've pretty much seen it all. The basic fight engine is solid, but feels a little too simplistic and generic. The pre-programmed combos were toned down, which should be a good thing, but after awhile you miss the 'wow' factor that came with delivering them. The sidestepping button doesn't really do enough to change things, and weapons are so easily lost that its not worth pulling them out except for the coolness factor.

MK4's still decent and worth buying if you find a used cartridge around, but only because the N64 seriously lacked solid fighting games. The Playstation had plenty of 2-d and 3-d fighters that made MK4 pale in comparison. It's still fun to go a few rounds with friends, and its a nice pre-cursor to the more advanced Deadly Alliance and Deception, but the game just doesnt leave you satisfied.well theres tons of different levels and stages you can go through.each fighter has his own special powers.before you get started youll need to inject caffiene directly into your thumbs to keep up with the computer guy.at first you should take lou kang.hes the easiest guy to learn.everythings easy once your caffiene kicks in up un til you run into goro.hes not even the boss but hes the toughest guy by far on every level.hes a big huge guy who can kill you in like 5 hits.when you hit him,it barely fazes him.just do something repeatedly like raiden[theres a real japanese god called raiden] and his torpedo spear or quan chis tele stomp.the fatalities are very gruesome.one involves a guy ripping off the other dudes leg and then beating him to death with it.ps-for some stupid reason all the cs are ks in this game.The very first 3D Mortal Kombat offers great graphics, new 3D worlds, the return of several fighters, tournaments, 2 on 2 kombat and much more. Scorpion, Goro, Reptile and others return to the game with a few new fighters, however the bad part is that all of the new characters have similar powers as the old characters that were not in the game. Another bad part is that unlike the past few Mortal Kombat games is that this game is very quick to beat and it lacks challenge. To make up for it though, there are the most awesome fatalities of any game, such as Scorpion's very realistic fire, the spinal removal from Sub Zero with a total 3D effect and Liu Kang's throwing his opponent straight toward the camera. Each fighter now has weapons as well to add flavor to the fight.This is definitely a fun platformer and a good first attempt at the genre by Naughty Dog.

Graphics (8/10) - The environments look very lush and colorful. From what I've seen, the game has none of the typical warping PS1 games are known for. It still holds up well today.

Sound (6/10) - Mostly average tunes here. Nothing I'd demand to put on my iPod, but it gets the job done and fits the game well.

Gameplay (8/10) - The game controls well even though you have to use the D-pad, since the analog support didn't exist when the game came out. The game itself is a challenging, fast-paced platformer that moves fairly linearly. It's a lot of fun.

Overall (7/10) - This is a solid game by Naughty Dog, and a great start to an awesome series.I think this is an OK game but the levels are empty and the game is a bit too hard for me I like the cutsenses though it is pretty interesting to see some good bosses like Ripper Roo, Papu Papu, Komodo Joe, Pinstripe and Nitrous Oxide. I like the Cortex fight I like crash's moves. I give this a below average of 3 stars out of 5.I will confess I never finished this game, but thankfully I won't need to curtsey of the RE-make for GameCube. I had originally started this series with RE 2, and decided to back track to the first one for the sake of finding out who Chris was, and why Claire was looking for him. However the horrid control, horrid graphics were bearable, but the lousy voice acting was not. I couldn't stand it because here was a great classic B-Movie story (and I love B-movies) with F-Movie acting. Everything about this game became cheesy. I then bought the director's cut hoping for better voice acting... well at least I got my wish a couple weeks ago. I then bought the dual shock edition.... yeah, I'm kind of bitter, but I won't hold a grudge because Capcom and Nintendo provided me with what I wanted recently. But this game could have been better, even for the time it was released; at least the voice acting could have been better. Now that the remake is available with all the good things about the original intact, plus some fiercely improved graphics, sound and dialogue (although I miss the "Master of Unlocking" line) there is no need to bother with this game.I loved this game as a child and bought it as a gift for my girlfriend. However, there is something wrong with the disk as she cannot progress beyond a certain level. Therefore my rating does not reflect the game, but the quality of the disk.Although the description does claim it is a little scratched but works well, it actually has a rough time being recognized by the playstation console. So it does take a few tries to get it going but once it does it works well, it got to me quick, and I have enjoyed playing it.i used to play this all the time when i was little. the graphic quality is low because its the first one but i still love this game.Product arrived far sooner than I had expected, and arrived in great condition, save for a few scratches here and there on the disc.

Aside from a little scratch or two, the game plays perfectly, and just as well as I remember it in the good old days. Back when game developers focused on the structure of the game and not just the graphics or any fancy sh** like that. This was back when 90% of the games at the time were all good, simple, and had such great repetitive value. Back when the ruling mascots were Crash, Mario and Sonic. Damn, it just brings tears to my eyes I tell ya.

My only real nitpick for this product was the case it came in, the jewel case was flimsy, and the tape holding it close was not really necessary, so it broke when I tried opening it. Aside from that, I am satisfied in the long run. I recommend this seller.

[UPDATE][UPDATE][UPDATE]

A little update on the product. The game plays alright up until a certain level very close to the beginning; 'Rolling Stones' to be specific, then it just flat out freezes and sits there. This really doesn't surprise me, these games are almost 20 years old, and it is rare to find a used one in perfect condition. I'll give this one game a little extra time and try multiple times to see if the level will play.

I won't change my opinion about this seller, I am not frustrated, or anything. I got the game in a great time window, it was cheap, and it works at least. Just a little advice to anyone distributing aged games like these; I'd suggest trying to at least play these used games through and make sure they work 90% at least. Time consuming? Maybe, but in the end, the seller gets money, and the customer gets their money's worth and their satisfaction is guaranteed. Fair trade, everyone wins.

I'll give it another week or two of trying it, if I can't get it to play past that point, then I may be returning it.It doesn't get much better than Crash!!  I love all his games!  note to those ps2 UNsavvy people as myself... this will play on ps2 but you CANNOT save!!  You can write down all the little shapes they give you to save but be careful... one mistake and you loose your game! This was irritating.  So... I got out my old PS1... Memory cards from ps2 are NOT compatible with PS1... so I ordered a PS1 from ever reliable Amazon and all is good now in Crash bandicoot world.  People who live and breath Playstation... stop rolling your eyes at me and saying "duh".  This is just a hobby.  Live and learn!  Happy gaming!Back when the Sony Playstation and Nintendo 64 were first released, people were getting all excited over Super Mario 64 in 1996.  It was new, it was innovative.  It had something.  Meanwhile, the Sony Playstation got Crash Bandicoot, and this was described as a game that could take Mario on at his own game.  That, of course, didn't happen, as Mario still holds the torch.  However, Crash Bandicoot wasn't a bad game.  It was, however, a bit more flawed than most other games out there for certain reasons, the main one seeming to be its unforgiving difficulty.  There were, of course, other mitigating factors.

Crash Bandicoot carries the--even then--overdone save the damsel in distress storyline, ala Mario saving Princess Peach over and over.  Much like Mario, however, Crash wasn't about storyline.  It was about gameplay, and here it's just as simplistic as it is in your average 2D side-scroller.  Crash only has two attacks.  His spinning attack and a jump attack.  You'll use this to take down your enemies.  There are advantages to using one attack over the other.  For example, the spinning attack can potentially send enemies flying into other enemies while the jump attack gives Crash some extra air, which is actually needed to access some of the games little secrets.

Throughout each level, Crash also has the ability to obtain Aki-Aki.  A mask that serves to protect Crash.  If you have one you can sustain two hits before you die.  If you have two you can sustain three hits.  If you have three you'll be temporarily invincible.  The game also makes it a point to give you an Aki-Aki if you're dying too many times in a certain level, and believe me, that'll happen a lot.  The good news is that Crash Bandicoot isn't shy about giving you extra lives.  The bad news is that you'll still mow through a lot of them pretty quickly.  A lot of the times things are just unfair.  The camera is permanently fixed behind Crash, so sometimes it's hard to predict jumps, or sometimes even where some enemies are.  Also, the amount of surprises they throw at you can be annoying as well.  Like a bridge where the planks fall out and then you get to what is seemingly a dead end only to find out that you've no time to look because the plank your standing on is also lose.  Thus, you've no choice but to go through a lot of trial and error in levels.

To its credit, though, Crash Bandicoot has a variety of levels.  There's the basic 3D platforming where you basically run through the level in a straight line with the camera behind you, but there are some levels that make you go about the old fashioned way by these levels being 2D side-scrollers.  There are also levels where you'll run from a boulder in Indiana Jones style, levels where you'll ride on a hog.  You'll get your fill from these levels.  Although, many level designs are also very simplistic and straightforward.  There's not a whole lot of exploration to be done, and even when you can veer off course, you'll only be backtracking to get back on the right course.  In short, many levels are just too linear.

Mastering the game is also fairly difficult.  Throughout each level there are crates that you have to smash.  If you smash all the crates, you score a perfect.  Seems simple right?  Well, the catch is you have to smash every crate in the level without dying.  And again, with some unfair camera angles in some levels, and the trial and error, you'll be attempting to score a perfect on a level several times.  Likewise, it seems strange that the levels are so difficult yet the games bosses are so easily taken down--including the final boss Dr. Neo Cortex.  Most boss battles aren't a challenge, but getting to them sure as hell is.

Even the games save system is flawed.  As you go through each and every level you'll find tokens that'll let you catch a glimpse of the girl Crash is out to save in this game.  The problem is this token is hidden in crates throughout the level.  The second problem is that you need three of them.  The THIRD problem is that you have to go through some stupid mini-level in order for your game to actually be saved.  They're played out in a 2D side-scroller like fashion with the exception that even in these levels there are some 3D elements, which again require trial and error to get through sometimes.  At least you don't lose a life... just the chance to save your game.  The FOURTH problem with this is that once you collect all three tokens, whether you were able to make it through the bonus round and save your game or not, you can't get them again.  Thus in each level you're only given the chance to save once, and you may not even get it!  This is inexcusable.  The later installments of the series certainly did a better job with the save feature.  There's also a password system here for those who don't have a memory card, and that's really nice to have.  Again, however, it sucks that you only really get one chance to save.  You can save after scoring a perfect on a level, but again, that's a one time deal.  You can't go to an easy level, score a perfect and save again.

Despite its gameplay issues, Crash Bandicoot looked good at least.  Especially for a game released in 1996.  It runs fairly smoothly, and just looks great for the time of its release.  It wasn't a launch title, but at least it was a game that was easy on the eyes.  The levels also look good and even too this day the game still has a particular visual charm to it.  It can't hold a candle up to today's graphics but in 1996 this was a charmer.  The game also didn't sound so bad either.  Some tunes do get annoying, but a lot of tunes really satisfy the levels, and the sound effects are brilliant.  As far as presentation goes, Crash Bandicoot really knew how to hand it to us.

Unfortunately, it's unforgiving difficulty may actually be enough to turn some fans away after a while.  Was it a good game?  Sure it was.  But the first installment just had a lot of unforgiving issues that thankfully were worked out in the second game.  It's not bad for a first outing, but a game shouldn't be so unforgiving in its difficulty.

Pros:

+It's a good looking game

+It sounds good

+Simple gameplay that anyone can pick up and learn

+A variety of levels

+Tons of secrets and little things to do; you'll be busy just trying to complete the game 100%

Cons:

-The difficulty level of this game is unforgiving

-Bad camera angles

-The games levels are difficult yet the games bosses are disturbingly easy

-A lot of trial and error moments

-Many levels are too linear

-The save system set up is absolutely horrible

It's still a good game, but later games in the series do a far better job.This game was fun and all but it was hard as heck. It was so hard that I had to put in a cheat to get all levels so I could skip the levels I couldn't beat. I don't know who the people can beat it because I can't. I mean does the guy who created this game expect us to beat it? I mean you can't even crawl. YOU HAVE TO PLAY THIS GAME!!! but beware it's the hardest game ever.nice cheap made cover it doesnt fot very tight but it does the job if you want to extend the life of your controller this is itSeeing as how this is the first Crash game, it pains me to have to give this game a 3. The only thing that makes this game not quite as good as the others is it's lack of a very big story(and not to mention a horrible ending). Otherwise, this game isn't so bad. I give this game a 3 and a half. The graphics, gameplay, and music are fairly good. This game got me into the whole Crash Bandicoot Trilogy; and the games just get better along the way!I bought this game when I first got my PS1 because I loved playing my cousin's Crash Bandicoot 2 game. While this game is fun, the part I hate about it is you have no control over when you can save the game. You are given the option at odd points in the game, and even if you beat 3 levels after the level you saved at, if you start over, you'll start at the level you saved at, and not the one you most recently beat.
...I recommend getting this game because it IS fun...Croc is one of those games I only had a small chance encounter with when I was younger. The demo disc that came with my PlayStation back in 1997 had a demo of the game and by all accounts I was pretty taken with. The graphics were bright and colorful, the world it presented (and by extension Croc and the Gobbos) were cute and likable and overall it seemed to be a pretty solid 3D platformer. Developed by Argonaut Software who developed the Super FX technology used in Nintendo's Star Fox on the SNES in the early 1990's, I ordered a copy of the game based on those memories... but fifteen years is a long time to be away from any game and with advancements in gaming this leaves little room for error. Unfortunately, if the title of this review is any indication, Croc pretty much squanders most of the good will its positives bring to the table and only serves as a history lesson as to why the series never saw daylight after the 32-bit generation.

Almost all of Croc's problems center on the controls. Well, it's not completely on the controls, rather it's a combination of the controls AND a camera that does whatever it wants - but if it wasn't for this I firmly believe more people would remember it. The game's controls are not unlike those in Core Design/Edios' Tomb Raider series - which in today's world some people find rather archaic - but I'm still at home with them since I grew up with that game. What makes Croc different (and ultimately more problematic) is the camera is not completely locked behind Croc at every moment. This makes certain moments of the game painful to play and its because these controls are more befitting of a game like Tomb Raider where the game world is more technical being built on a grid of squares. This isn't the case with Croc.

Well, that's kind of a lie because the further you get in the Legend of Gobbos the more technical (and challenging) the levels are with all their little platforms and obstacles where the clunky controls become a real liability. Even worse are the controls when Croc is underwater or doing a mini-game as these sections are simply horrendous. The situation with the controls is a real shame since the game (aside from the utterly pathetic boss battles) would still be astounding today if it wasn't for them. It's (kind) of possible to enjoy Croc despite its problems but I personally had to play the game in small bite-sized portions to really avoid my building frustrations - a red flag for a gamer if there ever was one.

Despite Croc's shortcomings I can't really tell people to flat-out avoid the game. I still have a soft spot for it (and the characters) despite what I experienced while playing through it. Still, if you can I'd recommend trying - or revisting - the game before you buy it. For those that played Croc when it originally came out nostalgia might be enough to save it, but those without an attachment to the IP will quickly see the game as the ailing entity it is.Croc, original released in 1997 had the same appeal that Crash Bandicoot had.  It was a simplistic game that was absolutely gorgeous to look at.  Obviously inspired by Crash Bandicoot and Super Mario 64, Croc was a game that could've been for everyone.  However, lackluster controls and a bad camera make Croc more frustrating than fun.

As with most games aimed at the younger audience, Croc has a simple story.  The Gobbos have been kidnapped by an evil Baron.  It's up to Croc to save the Gobbos and stop the Baron.  And he'll traverse four worlds to do it.

The level layout of Croc is surprisingly good.  Levels are pretty straightforward but you'll be able to veer off path whenever you need to.  In every level your goal is to get to the end and ring the gong.  Along the way Croc will be faced with enemies and natural traps like lava or freezing waters.  In every level you'll also collect gems.  From level to level the total gems you finish with stack up on each other.  For every 100 gems you'll get an extra life, and you'll need those lives.  There are also six Gobbos in every level you venture to.  Five of them are scattered throughout the level randomly.  However, the last Gobbo requires you to find five special gems and open a special door at the end of a level.  Upon finding those gems and opening a special door, the game will usually make you play some kind of bonus game or solve a puzzle to get the last Gobbo.  Some of these parts of the game are incredibly frustrating.  For example, in one bonus game you'll have to make Croc jump on buttons in order to "whack" sheep in a sort of Whack the Mole fashion.  However, it speeds up and the controls aren't all that friendly.

That may very well be the biggest problem with Croc.  The game is such a pain to control.  You'll suffer a lot for this.  Up always moves Croc forward but the camera is always moving.  Croc doesn't turn sharp enough so you'll mostly spend time stopping and turning so that you can continue on your way.  This wouldn't be so bad if there weren't enemies on your tail or if you didn't have to stop and turn on a collapsing platform.  Even worse is the camera.  You don't get control over it at all.  The view doesn't shift fast enough which may lead to you running into an enemy simply because you don't know where it is, or having to quickly jump off a collapsing platform.  These issues make Croc--an already challenging game as it is--harder than it has to be.  It's frustrating as well.  The game has potential, and the right gameplay elements, but the controls make it too hard.  However, it is still a good challenge.  Completing the game 100% by finding all the Gobbos and getting the second ending is a task in and of itself.

What Croc lacks in gameplay it certainly makes up for in everything else.  The game looks stunning.  Especially for a Playstation game in 1997.  The FMVs look incredible, the bosses look spectacular.  The environments look incredible as well.  There are hardly any Playstation games that look this smooth or run this well.  The soundtrack is also a beautiful soundtrack.  In terms of production values, Croc is an astonishing game to behold.

In short, Croc is a good game, but a game that would've been so much better if it didn't suffer from such horrible controls and a bad camera.  It's a fun game, but only barely so.  There will be many gamers who won't be able to let those issues slide.This game has everything it needs to be GREAT! It IS great. I've never played Croc 2, scared off by difficulties in the first one. Yes, I agree, the controls are horrible. I can remember spending 7 minutes climbing platforms only to miss a cage, jump down, take 5 minutes back up, and fall down right before the top. <SCREAM> It made me even madder because the characters are the cutest, you collect things like Spyro and Ty, it's the cutest story, and I WANT to play it so, so badly...but the diificult controls make that impossible. For "Greatest Hit" couldn't they have fixed that ONE problem?? If they fix the camera/controls and make Croc 3, I will pre-order it.What I must first say is that this game is incredibly easy, and no, I am not an adult. I am 13 years old, and I got this when I was 12. The levels of the first world, Artisans, are super easy with a very easy boss. It's harder to GET TO the boss than it is to beat it. The levels just seem to keep getting just a tad bit harder, but nothing significant. The hardest boss is the boss of the second level and he isn't very hard either. Gnasty Gnorc is a surprisingly easy boss, once you figure out how to toast him. What makes this game annoying is that there is so much treasure, spread out into so many different places, that you will just rip your hair out in some of the levels trying to get it. But there are some pros. This game is a little bit long making for long lasting entertainment. The game also has great graphics with a frame rate that never slows down, and because between screens, the game is counting treasure, so it's like there's never a single load time. Also, some of the enemies are pretty funny, like in one level, if you do the right thing at the right time, the enemy will actually MOON you, and it's hilarious to see. Also, the controls are simple enough for anyone to figure out making for not much trouble otherwise. Some points of the game are hard like recovering stolen eggs from the theives, but besides that, this is an easy game that I would recommend to anyone below teenage age. The only reason I gave this game three stars was because I know most people like a good challenge, but it wouldn't be fair to give it four just because I personally like an easy game. Still good though.I loved this game when i first played it. It has many puzzles and frustrating stuff that you have to get away from because of how hard they are. It took me 10 hours to beat the game just because the puzzle solving is very hard on normal mode. You can play an arrange game where you have unlimited ammo for a sub machine gun which is cheating but is part of the game when you first turn it on. This game is fun and challanging the first few plays with whatever character, (You can be Claire Redfield or Leon Kennedy.) but it will be a bore when you finish it.People used to make a big deal how Star Fox 64 was supposedly an improvement over the Super NES's Star Fox.  Not in my world it's not.  Star Fox 64 uses eye candy and colorful animations to disguise several moments of mediocrity.  No doubt it uses eye candy to disguise the lack of challenge.  The reason the Super NES's Star Fox was so successful is because it's able to combine challenge with really intense atmosphere giving the gamer the impression he's helpless in the galaxy (especially whenever your life is low- a feeling you hardly encounter in Star fox 64).  The pressure would get really intense whenever you begin to lose your teammates (Peppy, Slippy and Falco) and you wonder how much longer you'll be able to survive.  However I feel no pressure whatsoever in Star Fox 64 regardless how many of my animal friends go down or how low my health meter is.

I think the game is going for a cinematic feel while completely ignoring a degree of challenge.  The game certainly *looks* good.  Another problem is that the enemy variety is really lackluster and you're hardly ever swarmed with too many enemies which is a negative in my book because it means the intensity of the flight shooting isn't quite strong or memorable enough overall.  The music is another major disappointment.  Whereas on the Super NES the music was extremely catchy, suspenseful and memorable, no such treatment occurs here in Star Fox 64.  Instead every stage has quiet generic hard rock with no noticeable melody and it sounds really average to me.

While I don't mind having your team constantly radioing in and giving advice, it was a better format on the Super NES when they didn't actually speak.  This is because Peppy, Slippy and Falco talk a LOT.  Slippy in particular sounds like a child which is grating.  The enemy Andross talks a lot too.  Every few seconds you'll hear them speak and while some of the stuff they say is surprisingly enjoyable, I don't really want to hear it every time I fly a mission.  Most everything they say is playful anyway.  The explosion of enemy aircrafts tends to feel like an afterthought too, with no suspense occurring there either.  Tame explosions instead of violent and memorable ones like in the original Star Fox.  This is partly due to enemies appearing significantly less frequently than in the Super NES's Star Fox.

Well let me mention the levels.  Meteo is decent but a boring imitation of the same type of dark space stage we see in the Super NES's Star Fox where you're constantly surrounded by flying boulders and a high danger level.  In fact that's the biggest problem with this game- you swerve around traps and enemies *some* times, but it's never a very threatening or frequent occurrence.  It's a very tame flight you're taking most of the time.  Fortuna is a generic level with lots of flying and very little action.  Sector X is a high point due to featuring several moments of swarming around dangerous traps and closing objects while Titania is a pretty decent level while driving around on the ground in the landmaster vehicle.

Boise Defense Outpost contains a force field, and it gets tedious chasing enemies for a while.  Katina is tedious as well since it takes forever to open hatches on enemies.  It's boring.  Solar is awesome however since it involves dodging giant snake-shaped fireballs.  Macbeth is a train chase on the landmaster.  It's a pretty fun stage but the boss fight is once again tedious since it takes forever to defeat.  Sector Y is an awesome outer space dark level avoiding floating space crafts.  Aquas Ocean is even MORE awesome!  Hey alright, some memorable levels for a change.  The statues you fly past are quite intimidating and the sight to see in this stage.  The eye candy graphics from the explosions are unique too.

Toxic Waste Area is a unique toxic ocean level with a tough as nails boss fight made of armor.  The snakes coming out of the toxic water is cool too.  Sector Z is generic and forgettable since it lacks combat.  Area 6 contains a memorable disappearing disc-shaped tentacle boss with a giant golden-colored planet in the background.  I admire this stage's appearance.  Venom: Andross Homeworld begins on a lackluster note featuring generic enemy chasing and shooting, but immediately after this part is over the level turns WAY more intense and atmospheric (claustrophobic in particular).  The Andross boss itself is memorable mainly for the intimidating appearance of his first form and less about the second form which involves shooting aimlessly and hoping you hit your target.

Boss fights feel significantly less suspenseful perhaps due to them being easy with predictable weak points for one thing, and also the lack of suspenseful music.  This is why the Super NES version is so much better.  Don't get me wrong guys, I *do* admire this game, but I almost never feel like playing it knowing a better version of Star Fox is out there.Everyone tells me that Starfox 64 has it all: a great story mode, creative bosses, well thought of voice samples, and a fantastic multiplayer experience. Starfox 64 is another classic game on the Nintendo 64. It's designed to be a space shooter, where you fly through levels shooting down enemies and occasionally saving your friends behinds.

Now, never playing this game until very recently, it was hard for me to judge the game based on my opinion. All I've heard about this game is that it is a classic, but when I played it for the first time recently, it was hard for me to consider this game a "classic". The game play was very easy and also very short. I've heard that there are some secret levels, but none that I have discovered yet. During the game you are accompanied by some of your fellow pilots, who constantly need saving. A few times is ok, but in my opinion the creators of this game should have made pilots that knew how to take better care of themselves because there always whining and complaining. Don't get me wrong, this game was really fun; it has great graphics for when it was made, and definitely managed to keep me entertained throughout it. The only problem is that I'm not a valid reviewer because I didn't play it when I was a kid and I have been influenced by the greater technology and systems we have today.

Overall, I rate this game a 3 out of 5 for its graphic appeal, but its lack in greater story mode. I only wish my mom got this game for me as a child.this game is okay, i'm not really into this type of games, but this one ewas pretty good for it's type.This game is pretty entertaining for the first couple weeks that you have it.  After that is doesn't really have much to offer.  The game just gets really easy to beat and extremely repetitive with all the says of the various characters.  Although the characters, with names like Slippy and Peppy, give some extra flavor to this boring game.  Multiplayer mode is just plain bad.  All of the escape moves make it too easy to dodge your opponents fire, so the game takes forever, and the multiplayer levels themselves offer you nothing interesting.  This game does have it's value for a little while so if you want to try it then rent it, don't waste your money buying it.The solo game is the cheapest, most annoying game to play.  The computer flat out cheats, and it's totally agonizing to watch the computer play it's mini games and take their endless turns.
With some friends, it's more fun since you can make fun of each other when you lose.  If fact, I'll only play that can with at least two other people.  I suggest a rental as long as you have a group of friends to play with.Mario Party started a 10-long installment (thus far) installment of fun and great times. Luckily, it happens to be the worst installment in the franchise. The graphics are sub-par, the gameplay is more simplistic, and the mini-games are less numerous and exciting. Many the of the mini-games are just inane, boring, or frustrating, such: Grab Bag, Slot Car Derby, etc. The music in the game is great though, and is its strongest suit. I'd really only purchase the original Mario Party if you happen to be a huge fan of the series, like I've become. If you're not, it really doesn't justify paying the price these games are currently going for.It's fine for saving games, but this one doesn't have a MAGICGATE logo anywhere in this product or memory card itself.  This memory card does not support Free McBoot, since it's likely not a MAGICGATE product.  The Datel and Sony brands are the better ones out there since they both use MAGICGATE technology and support Free McBoot.This game is very fun but isn't very groundbreaking or original but you'll have so much fun when you configure the controls to your liking you won't really care. I however, think the Wii downloadable version has much better graphics and sound quality and the controls are easier on the Wii compatible Game Cube controller than the Nintendo 64 one. There are better racing games available but this is still one of the best old school racing games.I used to play Cruisin USA a lot back in the days of great arcade gaming and I was excited to hear that it was headed to the Nintendo 64. This port though is really for the die hard fans of the arcade game it is based on because the good qualities of the game do not outweigh the bad qualities.

The Good Qualities: This port includes all of the cars, stages and music featured in the arcade version. The controls are spot on so you were able to get into this game easily. It even includes the secret cars by hitting certain buttons at the select screen such as the bus.

The Bad Qualities: This game was one of the first titles to be released soon after the Nintendo 64 made is debut and it shows. While the graphics are crisp and bright, they were also choppy at times during gameplay and this game was one of the first to feature massive "pop up" graphics: graphics that suddenly appeared out of thin air. While the arcade game suffered from this as well, it wasn't as bad and the overall draw distance was better than the N64 port. The digital voice samples along with the audio in the N64 port were muffled; it sounded like it was playing out a paper bag. The cars controlled in the same way so there was no difference in what you picked to play during the stages.

If you were a fan of the Cruisin arcade series, be warned that this is a decent port of the first title in the series and like the first arcade game, had little variety in the control of the cars and the stages. I like arcade racers so that is why I give this a 3 star rating. Peace.I see a lot of negitive reviews here. You have to remember this is an old game now, but more importantly a game that started a long line of arcade racers. This game was released in arcades in 94 and two years later it finally made it home. But unfortantly they took a bit out of the arcade game to make it "E". This game just came to late. It was still a fun game, but only for a little bit and the sound was down played too. But in 96 it was still really well liked, but just didn't age well. But for anyone who thinks this is terrible you have to understand its older then the 96 release date.I bought this game because i thought it would be cute and it is. The game can be a little frustrating it's hard to believe they intended the game for children. i mean i am having a hard time with it. But overall it's a pretty good game.game has a skip in it. Cannot play this game. Won't load up. Looks like it would be a fun game though.As Adam Drake you go back in time to stop an alien force from totally destroying the human race.  You have a colorful array of weapons and about 70 different vehicles at your disposel.  But over-all, the story-line is a little predictable, and the objectives are a little frustrating, but it is a pretty cool game.This game is like, Blast Corps only you can go into all the Houses.  Driving around and shooting thing's is Kinda' fun, But it can get boring.  The game seem's to be more like an RPG game, And since I like RPG's I  enjoyed the game a little bit. But, it's not really a game you'd want, To  go back and Play.This is a fun game for all you Gex fan. It's pretty nice, but to me...not really all that. I was always a Spyro fan back in the day when this game first came out, but it's something different to get into.I went in to Syphon Filter with high hopes and was somewhat dissapointed.  While the levels are large and fairly well designed, the quite average graphics caused problems when you get close to surfaces.  The games controls also suffer from problems, mostly in terms of the targeting function, which is useful for quick aiming in tight spaces, or when an enemy is moving fast, yet will often aim for enemies you can't hit, when you are being shot at by ones you can, or even aim behind you, throwing the camera into wild spinning and throwing your character out of control.  Fortunately auto-aiming removes the necessity of using targeting in most circumstances.  In some places, infinately respawning enemies will cause a great deal of frustration (just to be fair, I did set off an alarm, but still...).  Some puzzles are good without being [dumb] and contrived, but some were just plain stupid, especially one early in the game where some explosives you just happen to need are hidden in a box in a dark corner of the level.  Some triggered events (especially spawning) are odd, for example, on one level, if you haven't completed a certain objective, you will die without much explaination.[...]

While these flaws greatly detracted from my playing experience, The story is fairly good, certain levels are very fun, and the game hardly ever throws anything so hard that it's agrivating at you.  One battle with a helicopter is a little bit overwhelming, although the hardest part comes at the end of the battle when you have to remember to take off your targeting to hit some enemies.

Overall, Syphon Filter is a great game executed poorly, but I have high hopes for the sequal.  I hope I'm not let down again.The expansion pak will definitely enhance many of the newer N64 games (the differences I've seen on Episode I and SuperCross 2000 are very noticeable), but for the extra bit of eye candy I'm not sure this is worth  the money.  If you really enjoy crisper graphics, then go for it.. but I  think some people will find their money better spend elsewhere.
Another  thing to keep in mind is that the N64 is becoming dated.  The expansion pak  will help it a bit, but if you are planning to upgrade to a new system then  I would save your money.Before you freak out about the 3 stars let me just say that in my perspective this was a completely overrated product, waste of time and money. Only because I was told before I bought this expansion pak that it would make my 64 games look great and play better, also because i saw review videos comparing games with and without the expansion pak. I saw no difference in my games in any way. Yes, im also aware that certain games needed the expansion pak to work, but i own none of those specific games. Thank you.it get a little glitchy when i say that itsome time bugs out im not sure if the pin are hitting just right or my n64 is garbage but does work just need some tlc to getting going but after that your golden but works none the lessIt was very difficult to take out the filler of the slot. I enjoyed being able to finally play my copy of majora's mask.Luckily, I got my expansion pack with Donkey Kong 64,so I didn't have to spend 30 bucks for it. There is a significant difference with the 4 megabytes of extra video memory, but it's nothing revolutionary. However, because quality games like Donkey Kong and Perfect Dark require it, it must be purchased. There are also several games that don't require the expansion pack, but benefit from its use (Top Gear Overdrive, Rouge Squadron). The bottom line: if you're a 64 owner/player, you should probably buy the expansion pack.This thing is only worth the money in games like Donkey Kong 64 and Perfect Dark where it is required to play. All it does is enhance graphics and add memory which isn't worth the ... price tag in my opinionStar Wars RACER features excellent graphics. You get your choice of pods and their corresponding character. During the race, the graphics are very smooth and the controls are very easy to master. During the first few races, expect to break lap records in finish first. In the harder levels, expect nose-to-nose finishes. The only drawback is that the game is pretty much the same from start to finish. This is a must have and still today, it will show off your graphics card!This game is super hard the first time around. Then, when you beat it, and go for another try it is sooo easy. You can get through 1/2 the game in an hour, because almost all of it is puzzles, so when you figure them out after 1/2 an hour next time it takes 1 minite. Also i found it fristating that there are no big fights, where you can fight about 20 battle droids. The biggest, funnest fight is in the very beggining, when you are up against 6 battle droids. If Lucas Arts had put in a few more units, and better levels, this game would be worth buying, but as it is it is not all that good.The Phantom Menace.  Sometimes this game seems like an excellent one, while at others it is downright boring and silly.
The graphics, while not the best, are certainly the best i'll ever see on my fast-approaching  obsolete computer.  They are still pretty impressive though, as are the  reflections, particle trails, and other little graphical effects.  The  sounds and voices are all pretty good too.
While the first few levels and  the last few levels are pretty much fun, the Tatooine levels are boring and  silly.  Also, after playing the jedi for half of the game, you feel  immeasurably weak when you are forced to play as panaka or the queen with  her wimpy "droid stunner" gun.
The first time you play this  game, it is pretty fun and challenging.  Most of the puzzles aren't too  difficult, but then you get to those jumping puzzles like the one on level  three, and due to the awkward POV and controls, it takes twenty minutes to  cross that little bit of water.  This becomes a constant problem  later...little jumping puzzles that take a vast amount of time and get very  annoying very fast.  It's also annoying running around tatooine, running  when people try to kill you but not allowed to kill them, and trying to  trade things back and forth.
Fortunately, the darth maul fights are  pretty cool.
The second time you play the game, it's extremely easy, and  I don't think I died once, and I beat the game in one sitting.  Boring,  fast, this game is fun the first time but has no replayability value.  Add  to that the lack of variety in enemies (100's of battle droids with once  and a while a destroyer thrown in), and the lack of multiplayer, and you  get a game which is decent but not worth the original $50 price.
Now that  the price has gone down, if you like these types of games, I'd recommend  trying it, but if you prefer shoot-em-up action games, stear clear of this  one.Pros:

-Great Graphics
-Great Soundtrack
-Good Controls
-Awesome levels

Cons:

-God awful voice acting
-A difficulty level that's waaaaaaaaayyyy too hard.
-I don't know if it's the ps2 version but sometimes the homing attack mechanic doesn't lock-on properly sometimes.

Overall: It's okay. I bet the gamecube version is better, but if you only have a ps2 then I guess this game is worth it for a sonic fan.I was excited to get this game.  It's apparently a sequel to "Sonic Adventure 2: Battle" (though, I hardly see how), which I loved, but it wasn't as fun as I expected.  There are four teams with different stories and varying difficulties, but each team plays through the same levels in the same order.  The areas have a decent variety, but when you play through each four times, it gets boring.  There were sometimes changes to the levels, but not much.
In terms of gameplay, each team has three characters, and you can switch between which one you control.  One is a speed character, one is for flying, and one is better at attacking.  This is kind of fun, and it is mainly what makes the game unique.
I also think the game could be too hard.  I don't mind a challenge, but the game could be too ridiculous at times.  It wasn't even fun many times because of this.  Once you practice a lot, it's not so bad, but it took a lot of practice to get good enough that the game finally became somewhat fun.  I believe there was a final story after the four main ones, which would have been nice to reach, but I couldn't get all the Chaos Emeralds, so I couldn't.  So try to get them as you go along, or you must redo levels.  Not much happened in the part of the story I actually got so see, and it could have been interesting, but I don't know.
So I really wouldn't suggest buying the game unless you really want to and really like Sonic games.  It's not terrible.  It can be fun, and the gameplay is unique, but repeating levels and the difficulty is what disappoints me about it.I loved the game the first time i played it through, but as with MOST (not all) games, it got boring the second time around...:(...It strays far from the movie. It has the basic characters, but is not like the movie. You will recognize a few items and place from the movie...like the palace, of the last part of the game, where you defeat Darth Maul, but it was just kind of a game to sell and make money...It's fun, but doesn't last
Jason AndersonMy son wanted the Red Version soooo bad, so he used some of his allowance to get it. He likes it but he'd much rather play the Gold Version that he's had for much longer.This game was a good start for the Pokemon franchise but to strictly say. Very straight forward game and not very difficult. In my opinon this is the kinda game you would play in your free time or for old times sake. The controls are identical to Blue and Yellow and gameplay is simple.Out of all my friends, I must have been the last kid to get this game. I was not regretting it when I asked for it and got it for Christmas, because this game was so cool at first. On Christmas day of 1998, I must have played this game all day. In three days, I had all eight badges, and enough to take on the Elite Four. It took me a little while to beat them, I did. And that's when I got sick of the game. The thing is, after you beat the Elite Four, what you have is a group of superpowerful Pokemon that can only fight wild Pokemon, and you need to catch the rest of the Pokemon. The game becomes a big nothing. It's fun to raise low level Pokemon if you still have trainers you haven't fought, but besides that, it's a pretty big nothing. All you can really do is fight wild Pokemon, walk around, get lost(Which is hard because the game's map is too easy to figure out), and go shopping for items you probably won't need. I have never gotten all 151 Pokemon, because it gets so boring at around 120 that I can't stand it. The game is fun if you use cheats like starting off with Mew and multiplying items, but besides that, it's pretty boring. I'd say to buy it, but the fad is over now, and nobody cares. Playing Pokemon these days makes you an outcast. Only buy this if you're not afraid of ruining whatever reputation you have.
PS: Don't say my review was helpful just because you're an angry fan. I get that a lot. If you didn't find it helpful, that's when you criticize my review, but otherwise, just don't say anything.Star Wars Episode 1 Racer.  Well, in this game you play as one of many characters that can be unlocked by winning races and setting records.  After each race, if you place high enough, you can upgrade your podracer by  buying new parts, or searching through Watto's Junkyard.  There is a  multiplayer, but it is pretty standard, just a split screen racing option.  This is a pretty good game, and ... it's a great buy.  I commend  Lucasartss for the feeling of really fast racing, but besides this and the  ability to buy parts, this game is essentially nascar on different planets  with space ships and a winner title.It won't autosave, and it resets progress on reboot.  Other games I own don't seem to do this.This game is great fun, especially if you've ever wanted to see the nintendo characters up close together, or just like simple, fun multiplayer. I like the powerups especially, like the home run bat from earthbound, a lightsaber, a bobomb, etc... However, there are some cons to this game as well. Mainly, for all other people claim differently, the characters aren't balanced. Link with an experienced player will whoop most other characters, and certain characters, such as the big and lumbering donkey kong are way easier to knock off the edge. Also, some characters like the unlockable jiggly puff are lame, single player is boring, and some of the arenas are tiny, making it near impossible to avoid getting knocked off if your character lacks some sort or float or teleport move. Still, great fun can be had by all. Also, samus is balanced in this one, as opposed to smash bros. melee where she has been nerfed.it was nice to see some of the greatest Nintendo characters come togeather in one game but all else form that this game is just to make your eyes sore!!! again i say these kinda games are for kids plain and simple.

The game repetitive , annoying , trivial and of course my favorite definition meaningless to me, i felt that alot more could have been done to make this game a great classic, but only the characters can stand out!!!! nothing else, not even the game play, my little bro loves this game so i guess it's worth a play if you have an infantile intellects laterzzzz folks / gamersIf you love Meele, you will not enjoy this. If you have this you would say it was fun for about.... 3 weeks. 4 maybye. I think the game is excellent but it wasn't addicting at all. But Meele is still my favourite game and is fun to play. So buy it if you hate being addicted.First, get this straight. If you're one of those Nintendo owners who invites all their buddies over to have a go at Goldeneye, Mario Party, Beetle Adventure Racing and all those other multiplayer classics, Super Smash is the game for you. Unless one of your friends has it. You see, Super Smash doesn't really achieve much in the single player adventure. This is due to the fact that it simply isn't fun to beat up people by yourself. Who are you going to taunt and yell at? The television screen? I'll give you some inside information: it won't yell back. The levels and characters get tedious and boring really really fast. But as a multiplayer romp, Super Smash achieves all that a fighting game can. It is fun, but only in groups.I don't see how any body can't like this game. I remember when the playstation first came out and this was the first game i got. I thought it was the coolest game ever, and i still think it's my favorite playstaion game. And im 17 now. It's a classic duke nukem game, i know the graphics aren't the best and a lot of the stuff is cheesy about the game, but regardless it's fun to play, and is easily a classic. :)Good product, works perfectly, the only problem is the stickers in the back part of  box, thats devaluate the product.This game is fun because it has the orginal Super Mario Bros in it. The nostalgia is there on the small Game Boy screen. The down part is the fluff, like images to print out. All this is a total waste of memory on the cartridge.I really don't understand why this game gets such a high rating. I mean all it is is an exact duplicate of the 1985 NES version converted to the Game Boy with a few extra modes of gameplay and extras added into it. I suppose for those who were to young and have not experienced the 8 bit Nintendo days it is good for them to experience the game too. But lets face it if there is any game that most video gamers have played at some point in there lives Super Mario Bros for the Nes is it. All this Game Boy version is is a fine conversion of the first Super Mario Bros to the handheld console and not much more. Great for kids that are young now though who missed out on the Nintendo 8 bit days.This game is to short, it is to easy to finish. There is not enough to keep you interested once you've finished the actual game. There are gimicy  little things added but they only keep you interested for about half and  hour. More levels needed.Its old and used with alot of wear.... as decscribed. by the seller. but thats why it was a low price.It was ok hope want for the game to came in to see if it works he washappy with itHaving the rare opportunity of trying it out, the Game Boy Color is a considerable leap from its predecessor.  Besides the main feature of processing 32,000 colors with specially designed games, the GBC is backwards compatible with classic monochrome Game Boy titles, though you can play with different palettes by tinkering with the face buttons when the title screen appears.  Also, though the system's slimmed-down design is pretty convenient for pocket games, it's a bit too narrow for big hands.  It offers no shortage in battery power, and the AC outlet at the bottom provides extended play with the right adapter.  The biggest oddity on the handheld (for me) is that you raise the volume by turning the switch down instead of up.  As for the GBC's less-than-stellar resolution, after discovering the Japanese-exclusive Game Boy Light, there's no excuse for having to find a proper light source.

This system is recommended for players over 7.This is the first hand held color system but it has many things wrong with it. The screen is way to small to use, even though the color came out on it they made the graphics worse, U have to be in direct light to see the screen, and the sound is really annoying. Nintindo made the color but they made the screen smaller and the graphics worse. I like the older one better. Like the old one i love the games for it but the sound is not very good and the graphics r bad. It is also big and bulky so it weights a ton and its hard to put in ur pocket. This one could have been beter.I use this for two games and I am sure there is plenty of storage to put on it but glad to have itI bought a used N64 from a friend a few years ago, he gave me an officail N64 controller, and a third party controller.  I still have the original controller, and I put the third person controller "out of it's misery"  Lighter + third party controller = bad smell and lots of smoke.I live in a neighborhood with around 30 children in it, that all play Nintendo. I love Nintendo to no end but these controllers break easily! That is why so many colors and versions of them are sold! The buttons break easily where they no longer work when pressed, especially the L and R buttons, the directional pad also breaks easily where you press up on the pad and it moves left or you press down and it moves left. Because of the handlebars on the side of the controller, that allows the plastic bends quite easily. I have noticed when children get upset or frustrated with a game they twist those handle bars, causing them to break, bend or crack. However a controller is a controller, but for this price you can find something cheaper that is more sturdy and reliable.had fun, still didn't win, needed lots of help with the walkthrough's (thank you to you all) and still didn't win....lol entertaining thoughDon't screw with the card by opening the screws or anything else, the ps2 just can fail indexing the card. There are no hardware issues with it it is just freaking huge. My proof of this is that i can work just fine on the menu with screws opened but  if your game tries to re-index it it can fail. It may seem tedious but just restart the system if it doesn't work at first or unplug and plug it back in. It is so much more card than I could ever dream of using I wish I had just got a 64MB so there wouldn't be index issues.oh my gosh this game is not a good game I gave it three stars for 3 reasons I was gonna give it 2 but then i decited it was a good game to goof around on. Its glichey and the plot is appearentally superman trying to find the right wedding ring so he does what any other superman does and flies through them. The cartrige I got was crappy to say the least. It was loose and the back label was gone and the front one was almost the same way. I works fine. I would recomend this game to someone who is not "super" serious about gameing and likes to waste time. If you want a better synopsis of the game check out protonjons lp of it, its.pretty good,well as good as this game can get.Okay, first off, when I played the first version of this game on the Seaga Cd version I practicly fell in love with it! It was one of my favorite games of all time!! When I herd that Working Designs came out with a new version of Lunar, I just had to buy it! But was dissapointed in several areas! For one, you got wayy more spells on the Sega Cd version! The story line was better! And the music was better! And the gameplay hours are about the same. However, the Graphics are better on this one and it has wayyy more cartoons! THATS IT! I love this game, but Working Designs didin't put enouph effort into it! You think they would at least put out a way better version on Playstation but oviously it was just a quick  process to make a few bucks! But it is a good game and I would recomend it! The enemys are more chalanging then most RPGS, and the voice programing is awsome! PLuse the battle systum rocks! But I wish the story line was as good as the old one......Go to the options and turn on easy mode. all the rings disappear, and you can fly straight to your objective. It makes a terrible game suck a little less.I feel so hypnotically enchanted floating through endless rings as Superman with the distant soaring effects peacefully sounding in the background.  For the first few minutes Superman seems challenging as an early 3D experiment to figure out which ideas work and which ones can be tossed aside and... you'd certainly *think* that floating through ring after ring would get boring after a while but... the opposite happens.  You get unusually attached to the endless task.

After a while these floating rings just seem to call my name.  It's like I'm destined to fly through them for all eternity.  I don't want to do anything else in life but fly through these hypnotic rings.  Sometimes I bump into bad guys and shoulder bash them away, other times I pick up items and toss them at specific targets but... the rings.  They always call me back for several minutes of peaceful daydreaming hypnotism at its purest.  I'm enthralled in this games beauty.  The graphics are decent too.  I have to go now.  The rings are waiting for me.  *stares off into space*I bought this game, and actually tried to play it, rather than giving it one star and paraphrasing the Angry Video Game Nerd. It's actually not as bad as most people would have you believe. Would I have paid $60 for it, even in 1999? No.

The graphics are about average for the N64: nice but full of blurry textures and gourad shading, as well as a tiny draw distance. The stock music is odd, but the voice clips (thankfully, used sparingly) are crystal clear. Sadly, they don't do anything to make the story any less incomprehensible.

Now, we move on to the controls. Flying Superman is simple, if a little loose. Making tight turns is a problem, but you have a lot of freedom with the controls; you can even do a vertical loop without the need for a second analog stick (see Superman: Shadow of Apokolips). Getting him to stop is tricky, which can be a hassle if you need to land somewhere fast. Camera control (using the + Control Pad) allows you to rotate the camera around the Man of Steel, and his movement with the Control Stick is character-relative. Zooming in or out is also possible, so any Superman fans who want to make machinima about the last son of Krypton, go right ahead.

For some reason, you can't save at all unless you have a Controller Pak; but when I did have one, it never prompted me to save, nor did it do so automatically. Perhaps I didn't get far enough into the game? There's not even a password feature, so playing later is difficult.

The mission structure consists of vague objectives linked by timed flights through floating rings. Unless you have completely spastic fingers, the ring stages shouldn't be too hard; I was able to do the first one in two tries, not 100 (like many people seem to need).

Overall, the game certainly isn't the worst ever made; not even close. It could have been so much more, but thankfully, people learned from the mistakes of Titus and made the much better Shadow of Apokolips and Superman Returns.Bloody Roar II: The New Breed - Circa 1999

GOOD:

- Nicely Balanced old school PS1 3D fighter

- Beast change really brings something new and unique to the table

BAD:

- Graphics are dated, for today's generation

- Somewhat small staple of fighters

IF IT FITS YOUR TASTE:

- Playing a Tekken/Virtual Fighter rip off where the fighters can transform into animals

-  Has some old school "dial-in-combos"

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Virtual Fighter 3

- Tekken 3

- Soul Blade

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- Bloody Roar II has almost every thing from Bloody Roar (the original) except for three fighters, besides that Bloody Roar II has everything the original had and then some

- Later Bloody Roars such as Bloody Roar 3 and 4, where not as Balanced as this one but the graphics were betterFelt like catching up on some older, highly review or cult classic games.
I understand that this was phenomenal and groundbreaking when it came out, but I just couldn't get into it.
Point and click adventure with limited animations, but I'll give it credit.
Runs best on XP.WHAT IS THIS?!
No but seriously.  They used the cdrom tech really good and made the ambiance wonderful.  But it seems this was just made to show off the cd technology.  It doesn't really need to be *easier*  We just need more of a story line and a direction of what to do.  But it sold very well and spawned some sequals (Riven being the best of the series).
This is for the most devout of adventure gamers who don't mind staring at the screen and saying to themeseves: "What the heck is this?"  "Why am I playing this?"  "Gah!  What am I supposed to do?!?!"
Buy then and only then.The puzzles are a bit wonky for the most part but keep in line with that special Myst look and feel. Get a walkthrough off the net and you will experience much less frustration at weird oddities that keep you from getting further in the game.This may just be my personal preferences, but here's what I think about Riven.

The graphics are beautiful, stunning even...but not as beautiful or stunning as those in, say, The Legacy of Time.

The puzzles are thought-provoking, but they can sometimes be difficult or impossible to understand simply because you don't know what you're looking for: there's no internal logic to the puzzles. In, say, the 7th Guest each puzzle has a clear goal, and a clear set of rules/guidelines/parameters.

The worst problem, though, is that it's lonely. I just find myself wishing for more people.

My recommendation? Borrow it from a friend or rent a copy from a video game store to see whether you enjoy it before you purchase it at full price.I enjoy playing the Myst games once through, they are fun and challenging. However my computer would not allow me to hit a certain switch for some reason, and I was therefore never able to get to the location on the cover. Even if I had, I would never play the game again, I would know how to do everything, and therefore, what would be the point? At least it is better then Myst in which you can win within about 15 minutes of starting the game, but still... Any 60 dollar game (as it was when it was released) should last longer than this. With the detail put in, the game itself is rather short, with puzzle solving accounting for much of your time. Also some puzzles can be so frustrating when you know what to do, but can't (the stopping the scopes thing, the puzzle at the top of the dome on the first island). I thought it was a beautiful game, but I wouldn't get it unless it is below 20 dollars, otherwise I don't really think it's worth it.Riven looks like Myst. Riven sounds like Myst. Riven plays like Myst...sort of. The producers emulated Myst in almost every way but they decided to change one important thing: they made it more open-ended. In Myst, you start on a small island, told what to do (collect pages) and have unlock other areas to proceed. In Riven, you are dropped in large area of five interconnected islands with only the vaguest idea of what to do. To find your way on your own requires a meticulous manner and loads of free time. My advice is spend a reasonable amount of time then use a walkthough as needed.
A technical note: I could not this running in Windows 2000. Riven requires Apple Quicktime 2 to run and after installing that I could get the sound to work. It may have a conflict between Quicktime 2 and Quicktime 6/iTunes also installed. The game ran fine on Windows 98.Many years ago, I played this game at a demo station and wished that I had gotten a PS instead of an N64. Having recently gotten a PS1 memory card for my PS2, I decided to get this game which I had very much wanted. I started it up, and... the game hasn't aged well. It's full of good ideas and originality, but the draw distance is pitiful and really diminishes the sense of exploration, and it sticks to some very outmoded design conventions.

If you're interested in videogame history, however, this is a fascinating game, as it shows what early attempts were made to justify having two analog sticksTo wit, this game quite fun. Since my game play style tends towards using the analog controller whenever I can, this game seems to be custom made for myself. And of course it is. It's a pretty neat concept having the monkeys (I don't think the manual writer did a lot of research on monkeys since the book uses "baboons," "apes," and " chimps" interchangeably)  escape from the zoo and having your job to chase down and capture them. Nice non violent plot really, one of the very few games that I buy and my girlfriend is willing to play.
And while the game has a nice plot, the programmers also spent a little time on the graphics in the game. Since the PSX is showing its age there is only so much any programmer can do. But the programers did a very good job. The smooth graphics, "large" worlds and a grand variety of scenes make this game a delight to explore (Never mind the obvious use of some of Sony's stock SDK files, usually evident by the "Pa Rappa" look in some areas). Throw in a huge variety of weapons and usable "tools" make this a winning formula indeed. In fact it is likely that after the PSX goes the way of the Atari 7800 that this game will be one of the reasons that die hard fans of the PSX will dust off that gray box (Or blue if they upgrade to the PSX2) and play a few levels. However, I have one major gripe.
It shocks me that many people consider the Ape Escape camera to be nice and well behaved. This camera is one of the most ill-behaved I've come across in a long time. Just what are some people comparing this camera to? Super Mario 64? If that's the case, then that's a hard judge. SM64's camera was pretty bad but at least it was aware of walls and didn't go behind them too often. Ape Escape's camera not only goes behind walls but it goes through them as well! Haven't the programmers at least heard of a "Jelly Cam"? C'Mon, there are numerous examples out there of what to do and what not to do with the camera. Ones with decent (mind you, decent, not perfect) camera's include Spyro 2, MDK 2, and Zelda 64. All of these games had cameras that were somewhat well behaved (although none show the classic "Jelly Cam," A Jelly Cam is a camera that when it goes through a wall turns the wall, or anything else, into a semitransparent entity. You know it's there but at least you can see what's going on on the other side.) AE does not fall into that category. I can't tell you how many times I've run back and forth in a level looking for a way out only to discover the camera wasn't "swinging" in an appropriate direction. Some pundits may tell you that only adds to the difficulty of the game. Someone should remind them of the difference between skilled difficulty and annoying frustration. Never, Never should any one ever lose a life because the camera wasn't doing a good job of showing what is happening around you. "How about blind spots?" Some may ask. What about them? It is very possible to design a game and camera to allow the classic "leap of fate." My gripe lies with the camera refusing to shift at appropriate times so that I can at least survive the darn jump! Or Shifting to an appropriate angle to allow a fair fight against a baddie. All to often I'm getting pummeled by a monkey with a machine gun or rockets simply because the stupid camera doesn't know enough to swing around a column. And using buttons to "fix" the camera's faults is a cheap trick. Sorry Sony, A big company like your self should know better.
This game gets three stars due the rotten camera work. If the programmers spent more time with this crucial element then the game would certainly win five stars. Too bad Sony, the frustration with the camera is simply too high. For those who think the camera works "perfect" play a few more games for comparison.I won't lie this game was really cool back in the day and i play it with utter pleasure,(at that time) it was only my second 64 game i ever borrowed, sure the graphics was stink and at times the game play frustrating the heck out of me, however this isn't one i'll call a classic it's no Zelda, Perfect Dark , Donkey Kong 64 and i can go on and on, if you don't believe me try to play this game now!!!! you will find yourself saying yuk! yuk! yuk! "n" i am being nice, it's worth a try but most likely true gamers will find it bogus, it has not true replay value and all in all it had it's time and that's all it will ever have, in my opinion, for those who loved it i am no psychologist so i can't say whats your problem is but!!! maybe you need to play real good game laterzzzzz folks / gamers.I first saw this game on Retsupurae, and was intrigued by its hammy dialogue and weird fighting style. After buying it (and it arrived in great condition), I found it to be enjoyable, but nothing special. Really the only things that keeps me coming back to it are the characters and voice acting. Each character is an anime stereotype, and the voices range from over-the-top (like Paul Eiding's Gally and John St. John's Dazaiver), to melodramatic (like Lie and Ihadulca's voice actors), to exactly what you would expect from a low-budget anime (like Chris Cox's Keiya). The gameplay only uses two buttons for fighting, attack and block with your distance from the opponent wand what directional button you press changing your attack, which seems stupid at first, but turns out to be a style that's easy to learn but difficult to master. There's a decent amount of replay value, like filling up the encyclopedia by beating each character's story and unlocking alternate costumes and announcer voices by beating the arcade mode. However, I can't recommend this to anyone other than gamers who are looking for something really obscure to play.I tried to fill this thing up but it stopped at 64 even though it said it had 128, the PS2 formatted it and it then said it only really had 64MB but it cost the same as a 64MB card so 3 stars Ha!This Final Fantasy is a pretty solid game.  Its strongest point is the battle system.  I honestly think it has the best battle system in the series with the exception of FF12.  It also has an interesting story and a really good system for dividing magic and abilities among your characters.  Unfortunately, the game is plagued with annoying mini-games like no other Final Fantasy ever made.  And the vast majority of them are mandatory.  Sometimes the camera angle is set a certain way that makes selecting the enemy/character you want to select nigh impossible.  In addition to all that, there are a couple of really annoying characters I just couldn't stand.  Overall, I'd recommend renting this game first instead of buying.  In my personal opinion, it's way better than 10 and 13 (because it isn't so linear or AS infested with annoying characters) but not quite as good as my favorite FFs: 6,8, 9, and 12.It'll work fine for all my Final Fantasy PS2 games, but for Kingdom Hearts II forget it. It won't work period. Even tho I have like 128,621KB Free it just won't save. So I think I'll look for a memory card BY sony or at least MADE by Sony...I remember when this game came out and  the PSX(sony) had a iron clad deal with Square for their new FF. I remember when I overheard these kids talking about "the graphics are going to be great" and I thought ,"Yeah but what about the story line and battle systems etc"? but all that went out the window since game manufactures started catering to  not the die hard rpg, dungeon crawler, shadow  gate, FF1  on the NES fan... but to the people who didn't know anything about games except " they have good graphics" It all started with this game.

The of course Tifa was all the range because her extra large "pixles" and all I heard was young boys every where talking about that and it was sad .  the story itself was a departure from the traditional FF series and this is a more post apocalyptic and dark. I myself did not like the graphics because the characters look silly to me all blocky and the backgrounds while interesting  I had a hard time seeing where I was supposed to , or could go. So therefore I had to spend a lot of time checking all areas .

This game to me saddens me and makes me thing of the turning point in games, when game companies started marketing not to kids but to adults and that made me sad.Sometimes works, sometimes not. I have bought several, and some work as expected. Comes in a cheap blister-style package. Still worth the money if you get one that works.Buyer beware.
It's a cheap-o piece of junk. Keep in mind that I own a few of these and EVERY one had shoddy soldering. In fact several electrical joints never even received any solder. I had to finish the job myself with my own equipment. Once I did that, they became a great addition to my video game collection. Only worth the price if you don't mind a little project.Since this was the first pure Rpg I had ever played, there were alot of things I found really neat about Final Fantasy 7. I liked most of the secondary characters and found their plot development well executed.

That being said, this game has one of the worst protagonists ever. Cloud. The reason he doesn't take the top honor of this? Because there are far worse protagonists, one of them being Squall. I guess emo kid Protagonists just don't do it for me.

It also relies very heavily on plot, that came before it (in that it shamelessly rips off 6 and previous Final Fantasies to the point of hilarity) in order to stand on it's own merits. Most Final Fantasy 7 rabid fans, probably couldn't actually play this game, due to the fact it's frankly no longer pretty enough for them. These are the same people that will try, in vain no less to convince you that X is a great Rpg. (and boy is that one TERRIBLE at the end.. don't get me started on the sphere grid, love story... anyway back to 7)

If Final Fantasy 1-6 had never existed and 7 was original I'd have a much higher opinion of this game, but between the rip off nature and Cloud it really kind of drags the game down for me. I never quite got the hype, yes there are a few characters that still stand out as pretty neat, Vincent and Cait Sith, Red XIII, Aeris, Tifa and Cid. But almost everything else is miserable. Even the Iconic of Bad Guy Sepiroth Yeah I've seen better since him. Far better.

I wouldn't recommend this game really, there are much better things you can do with your money, such as Xenogears, Final Fantasy 1,2,4, and 6. Final Fantasy Tactics, IX, or even XII.Final Fantasy VII had huge hype when it came out.  The first Final Fantasy game to be on the Playstation and the first to use the newer graphics the Playstation offered.  I really enjoyed playing the game and thought it very good.  I do not judge games on graphics and thought FF7's was pretty good although sometimes it was frustrating but was very much made up for with the gameplay.

I'm going to go out on a limb here with some of the FF7 lovers and say that this game was extremely overrated.  I agree it's a great game deserves more than one or two stars but I will confess that it seems the creaters of this game were lost a bit.  Upon research I found that yes Final Fantasy VII was not slated for a Playstation release and in fact was for a Super Nintendo, but then switch to the Playstation.  The grpahics were put together rather hastily but in my opinion serve there purpose and work.  The storyline however feels like it was changed around a lot and there seem to be holes all over it.

The gameplay is awsome and the materia system is great and I truly love the summons and there attacks. (although it was repetative watching them over and over during battles with big enemies) The only disappointing thing about this game is it tries to lead us away from the fantasy elements of the previous games.  Yes I agree FF7 is a fantasy RPG but it has strayed from the way in which it's older siblings fared.  My only complaint and this is a big one is that the story just seems to be fragmented.  When playing the game I can see writers changing there minds and new writers coming and going and the script being changed again and again and many forgetting what happened earlier in the story while writing the end.

No matter what others say this game is not the best and definately not the worst RPG out there and is definately not the worst FF game. (come on Mystic Quest wasn't that bad..."dodges tomatos")

It is true this game was highly overated and the gamers that started Final Fantasy with this game hate the older ones only because of the old grpahics and the fact VII was their first.

This game is great and I highly reccomment it.  You will find the storyline to have problems but they quickly fix themselves as this Final Fantasy game is a bit more faster paced than previous ones.(added snowboarding and bike racing games)

Overall I gave this game three stars and four for the fun because I feel it could have been much much better but it's still an awsome game and will always be.

-CadeFinal Fantasy VII was a revolutionary title to say the least. The game contained several things that wowed gamers everywhere such as beautiful graphic, new battle system(limit break, materia) and actually engaging plot. When I played it in 1997!!, I absolutely loved it and thought that it was one  of the greatest game ever made.

  However, I can't say I should recommend this game to new gamers right now (2006). Once beautiful graphic looks horribly jagged in today's standard (i.e. Cloud's hair) and frankly, battle system is just another japanese rpg battle system (now, gamers are more exposed to Japanese RPG than ever so it doesn't feel so special. In another word, you have seen it before).

  Many aspects of game are outdated and I am not sure new generation of gamers would appreciate Final fantasy VII as we older gamers did. I am sure about one thing though. It is not worth 70 bucks.

  So if you are looking for new solid rpg to play, look elsewhere. A lot of innovations have been made over 10 years and most of it is for better gaming experience. It was a great game in 1997 but you will enjoy other newer rpg more now.If you haven't purchased/played Final Fantasy VII, and are the least bit interested in doing so, I strongly recommend purchasing it. For the first few months after completing it, you will swear that no entertainment device comes close to meeting the caliber of this game, and this isn't necessarily unfounded. An astoundingly large proportion of people who have played this game have made this claim (and I admit--I was guilty of this as well).
After you play a couple other games after your first run-through of FFVII, though, the problems with the game become glaring. The character controls, for one, are stiff as a board. Whereas, one year prior to the release of this game, Nintendo was striving to revolutionize play mechanics with the fluid movements of a 64-bit Mario, Square seems to have been perfectly content with giving the player control within barely two-dimensions. The menu control (battle/item screen, etc.) is acceptable, but it's time these engineers help consumers buy something new, instead of the 7th installment of a stale interface.
Graphically, the game is, well, cool. From vistas to closets, FFVII gets environment design right. Quite honestly, there is no other game (Final Fantasy or not) which has matched the coolness factor evoked from Final Fantasy VII's graphics. The character graphics are hideous, and the FMV is unimpressive, but Squaresoft had absolutely hit the nail on the head with it's world design. Melodically, the sound is wonderful, and I would argue tied as the best in the series with FFX, BUT the technical aspects of the sound is horrid. MIDI? On a CD? And those gunshots are laughable.
But there is no denying that Final Fantasy VII is a kick to play through. The story is so convoluted and impossible to understand clearly that it's just fun trying to summarize it (impossible, by the way--but not for any good reasons).
For a really good PSOne Squaresoft game, go with Chrono Cross. FFVII will give you some enjoyment until then.this feels cheap and fragile but it works for being able to have a dvd player, gamecube and the playstation2 on one tv that only has one rca jack on it.This is a decent game, but it quite overrated.  The linearness of the early game is strangleing.  The lack of a pause function also hurts the game.  Many of the characters are sorely weaker than the others.  Plus, there are far too many subgames that are annoying that you have to waste lots and lots of time to accomplish something that should be quite simple.  Being able to make all you characters steal or cast great magic (usually from the Enemy-Skill materia) is great, but it kills individuality.
If you need your RPG fix, get it, but be forewarned that it is nowhere near as good as FF6, FF9, or Chrono Trigger.Not only the most overrated FF, but one of the most overrated video games of all-time. Sure, FF VII isn't a bad game, and while it was responsible for bringing RPG's into the mainstream and showing other companies how a 3D RPG is made, I don't see anything that special about it.
Released in 1997, FF VII has been played by millions of gamers, and it's most of the new-school gamers' first RPG. It's simply overrated. The story is average...chasing a villain (Sephiroth) and ending up in a "save the world" situation. Character development is also average. While a few characters are developed very well (Cloud comes to mind), others don't have enough. It wouldn't be so bad if one character didn't have much development, but there are a few.
Graphics were pretty good at the time, but I just don't really like the popeye-looking arms on the characters. When it comes to challenge, this is probably the easiest FF (not including the optional bosses, which will give you a rough time). You can easily save your Limit Breaks for a boss and beat it in a very short time. Magic and skills are learned through equipping Materia, which is a pretty cool idea.
As for extras (mini games, side quests, optional bosses), FF VII is a mixture of good and bad. I couldn't stand the chocobo breeding idea. Give me Chocobo Hot & Cold anytime over that. But the snowboarding mini game and the motorcycle riding were pretty neat. FF VII's replay value is alright. It doesn't have much that wants you to really go back to it though.
Most people give this a high score because it was their first FF. Others just want to go along with what other people have said. Don't let that fool you. FF VII is totally average, and I don't like seeing all these high scores for a game with nothing special. So it brought RPG's into the mainstream...big deal. I'm sure another RPG would have done that if FF VII hadn't come along at the time that it did.I replaced a cheap one with another cheap one by a different manufacturer. Same result. As I was inserting the wires I heard a cracking noise. Nothing visible and it is working, but when my grandson wears this one out,  and no doubt he will; I'll spend a little more on the next game switch box.I did enjoy this game a bit while I owned it, but I do not at all believe it's the best of the Final Fantasies (that honor belongs to VI and IX, in my opinion), and I certainly don't think it's the best Playstation RPG (that belongs to FFIX).
Now, on the positive side, this game did have an interesting story, pretty good music except for the dreary town songs, and some good development on a few characters (Cloud, Tifa, Red XIII).  The materia system was also quite unique and original.
Unfortunately though, this game also has some major flaws that seem to be generally overlooked.  For one thing, this new sci-fi setting...  Now, don't get me wrong.  It's not just the plain fact that it's sci-fi that bothers me.  I can deal with that.  After all, another cool RPG series I liked, Phantasy Star, was also sci-fi.  What bothers me, though, is that the atmosphere here is so drab and gloomy that it provided no motivation for me to continue on through the game.  Now, this problem was compounded by another major flaw:  Cloud.  He was the most unappealing hero I had ever seen, that is, until Squall Leonhart.
The other problem lies within the materia system.  While it is original, it also causes some trouble.  Mainly, it completely wipes out all the uniqueness and strategy from designing a party.  It doesn't matter who you put together at all.  In fact, there are no real differences at all between the characters except for their weapons and limit-breaks.
I do believe that the best FF game on the PSX was Final Fantasy IX, for a number of reasons, particularly the characters, the gaming system, and the much more inspiring atmosphere and music.  Now, I don't dislike FFVII just because it's different.  I think it's a cool game, but the fact is, it just isn't Final Fantasy.  You just can't take something and remove every familiar feature about it, then slap the label on it and call it a sequel.  It's an entirely different product.
Overall, it's a good game in its own right, but I honestly prefer the original Final Fantasy, FFIV, FFVI, or FFIX.Final Fantasy 7 is a great game. It has a decent storyline with good characters but it is absolutely terrible compared to the mighty FINAL FANTASY 8. 9 & 7 aren't bad but they are nowhere near the same standard.This was exactly what I needed.
I have a Wii and PS3 and I needed to switch between them.
Well this does just that.

The connectors are well labeled, and gave a tight fit.
The switch is BIG and well marked and I really like that (so does my 6 yr old).
Works great.

The 'complaint' is not against the product at all - I'd buy another.
The thing to consider is the placement.  I would have liked if all the connections were on one side - or maybe the OUT to TV was at the bottom.  When this is on the shelf all the wires are visible and not easy to hide behind something.Showtime is a good game with all the pushing and roughhousing and all the mayhem. What i am trying to say is any basketball fan who whants to play basketball games where its played the rightway do not buy showtime. Here are some examples for instance,you can pretty much punch the living pulp out of the player to steal the ball and the dunks are unrealistic and last but not least everybody shoots way over averege in the game. So anybody who loves basketball with no rules get this game the only problem is that the options get old real fast.Overall NBA Showtime is a pretty nice game. But I guess the NBA Jam formula has just gotten old because I remember Jam on Genesis being more fun. If you have never played Jam this may be great spectactular fun with lots of cool options. Again, this overall is a pretty cool game, not the best but still alright. Midway has now succsesfully created good x-treme football and Basketball games so lets get workin on a baseball one.As Need For Speed games go, I must say....this is the poorest installment.

I'm a racing game fanatic, and have always been a fan of the Need For Speed series, but this one is mightily flawed.

The graphics are average at best, but the videos and information on each of the cars was superb. The graphics and frame rate take a major hit when you go really fast, and actually, the cars at times don't even feel like they're on the ground when driving.

The cars control just okay....but on the more difficult tracks, it is really hard to keep up with the leaders of the pack because it isn't really that easy to take hard turns and hairpins all perfectly like the computer always does.

Being able to drive a Ford GT90 and my dream car, the Jaguar XJ220, is what made me buy this game, but then being able to use them in the game made me really wonder if they should even be dream cars.

Look to Gran Turismo 2 if you want a better selection of excotic cars that are actually controllable.

The sounds of the game are just so-so....all the cars seemingly sound alike when accelerating....and you'll get used to the grating metal sound of nailing walls at high speeds....

The best aspect of this game is the music, quite possibly the best of the NFS series, but when you buy a racing game for the music....that's pretty pathetic.

If you're a fan of the NFS series and HAVE to have every NFS out there, sure, pick this one up for a very cheap price. It's not worth more than 4 or 5 bucks nowadays, so don't pay any more than that.

Die-hard racing fans? Look elsewhere.

Overall, 5 out of 10.I was not expecting the cartoonish graphics.  I was hoping for a game more like Soul Calibur.  This game bored quickly, even playing with a friend.  The special moves were hard to pull off, leaving us to just punch each other.I use to like this game alot when it came out. But, after trying out Street fighter 3: third strike. This game is for the original fans of the alpha series. The cool thing is now you get to choose a variation types of super styles. More modes making fun to play than the arcade. The weirdest but could be cool is the mode where you can already fight bison(vega) mode. If you beat him you get to see the ending for you chosen fighter. Why bother playing arcade mode then if you want to see every persons ending? I hate the two button idea of grabbing and two button recovery after being poped. Couldn't they just make it like the original alphas? Capcom seemed like they tried to add some street fighter 3 flavor to this game. I say it is fun if you challange your friends.For The Love Of God Don't Believe The Hype! This game had so many people kissing it's butt it wasn't funny. I got it and it was a huge let down. Soul Blade on psone was better then this! Sure it's all pretty, but it's basically just a virtua fighter clone with wepons and smaller backgrounds.alot of the charactors are basicly the same (Astoroth&Rock/Mina&Kilick/Lizardman&Sophitia/Inferno&Edgemaster) The backgrounds while pretty are basically just the old 2-D backdrops used on the first 3-D fighters. The "innovative" world tour mode had been done in SFA3 already so that wasn't a huge plus either. Dead or Alive 2 kicked this things butt as did the painfull to play VF3. If you have either of those forget about this.While this is the only good port to any of the Marvel vs. game prior to MVC2, this game still has a few problems in comparision to just playing a CPS2 ROM.

First off, the sound is god awful.  Everything from this game sounds like it's coming from a small FM Radio with nearly dead batteries from the other end of a long tunnel.  It's that bad.  Not to mention that there are a few sound glitches where some of the sound effects don't even play for a few moments.  So, for example, you periodically won't hear Ryu yell, "Hadoken" for a short period of time.  But the sound doesn't make the game, the controls do.  And that's my next gripe.

Unless you are on an Aracde Stick, you'll have a harder time playing this game then you would on a keyboard.  Not only does this game not support the analog stick, but the control pad isn't very responsive at all.  And no, it's not the controller.  I've played KOF 98 and 99, Street Fighter 3: Double Impact, and Soul Calibur 1 all on the same controller.  And I haven't had nearly as many problems with the controls on those games as I've had here.  Not to mention, you have shoulder buttons for the FP and FK.  In MVC2, you won't mind shoulder buttons because that game has a 4 button layout with FP and FK used almost souly for calling the helpers.  MVC1 still has the 6 button layout as its other Capcom brothers.  Meaning a standard Dreamcast controller isn't very suitable for a fast paced game such as this.  Every nanosecond counts in this game and you can't have sluggish shoulder buttons slowing you down.  Street Fighter 3 and Alpha can get away with it, but not this game.  In short, get a Mad Catz Dreampad or some sort of Aracde Stick if you're going to get this game.

Single player also gets rather dull pretty quickly.  This game is meant for competition as far as I'm concerned.  Casual players will enjoy this game, but the computer is either very easy or very hard and there isn't much middle ground.

On the plus end, the game itself is completely intact from the CPS2 version.  And it even has the added Onslaught Mode after you unlock all the hidden fighters.  It also has a 4 player tag battle mode as well.  And that is probably the main reason to get this game.  I, myself, play 4 player tag battle with MAME on Kaillera all the time and I have a blast.  But for those of you that don't believe in emulation and have 3 friends around, this is just as good.

All in all, this is one of those party games that's good for playing at an Anime/Video Game convention, for instance.  And while most people sing praises about MVC2, MVC1 is a very solid and competitive game.  The characters are quite unbalanced.  But it doesn't seem to hinder the game in the least bit.  Sans the small rooster of characters, this can be considered supieror to MVC2 in certain ways.  Pick it up if you have some friends around.  You'll have a blast.If I had to be simple and brief in my review of this video game, I would say - BORING.Well this wrestling game was it and I played it a lot.  The moves were  tough to pull off and sometimes didn't work all the time.  Nevertheless  this was a hell of a lot of fun.  Trust me.....save your money and buy  Smackdown! or something else from THQ.  It blows this away.This was Acclaim's sequel to the horrendous 1998 release of War Zone. And while I will say that Attitude was 5x better than War Zone, I won't say that it didn't feature some of the same flaws that War Zone did.

I'll start with the goods first. There were a hoard of new match types added to the game. And while I won't list them all, I will say that some of them were a Triple Threat, Fatal 4 Way, Fatal 4 Way Elimination, Handicap, Gauntlet, Stable, Battle Royal, I Quit, Last Man Standing, First Blood, Royal Rumble, King of the Ring, Survivor Series, and many more. The variety was overwhelming and was bound to keep players busy and satisfied for the time being when playing.

Another plus to the game was the realistic entrances of the superstars. In War Zone, the entrances only consisted of you seeing the superstars come to the entrance ramp before cutting to the ring. In Attitude, they diligently take time to accurately add a touch of realism to every superstar's entrance. For example, when Undertaker is on his way out, the lights will slowly dim before he makes his entrance. The only thing I don't get is why the entrance way includes steps for them to walk down on. You could also pick from the Raw, Sunday Night Heat, or Custom arena to fight in. This was another cool feature as you could pick the ring skirt, choose the lighting color, the color of the ropes, etc.

War Zone's Challenge Mode was replaced with a Career Mode. The superstar you choose to play as starts off on House Shows, trying to work their way up to Raw, then eventually PPVs and earn challenges for the European, Intercontinental, and WWF Championships.

Perhaps the most frustrating thing about this game is the gameplay. The moves are slow and extremely hard to perform and sometimes don't even work. How slow you ask? Lets just say that when you try to attempt most moves, it gives your opponent enough time to attack you. The gameplay is what makes the game completely unenjoyable. It's too slow, the simplest moves are too generic and easy to perform and get boring easily and the crowd will let you know their disapproval as well as they begin to boo you.

Overall: Attitude is better than War Zone but only in aspects that don't involve gameplay. More options to choose from but the gameplay is probably worse than War Zone where at least in War Zone, most moves were easy to do. I still say that In Your House was the best of the 3 games made from Acclaim. But fortunately this would be their last WWF game they ever made. WWF's next major video game was Smackdown that would be developed by THQThis game is only worth checking out for the great voiceover work.  The gameplay itself is pretty bad.  If you can pick this game up cheap, do it.One of them broke immediately, the other one still works, I guess they're just too cheap and there's no telling if it will actually work longer than two days.This really is a step up from Dirt 2. Better graphics, cars seem a little more responsive. Overall it was worth almost the money, but of course, I wait till the games are "old hat" and buy them cheaper.

The really bad thing is having to buy tracks and cars. Nope, I'm never going to do that and I think it is a crappy deal, but that's life. If I had known about the lack of tracks and cars, I would have passed. There's no real reason to finish the game, as it's just more of the same without paying a bunch of money to get all the "extras", that should have been in the game to begin with.Acclaim Sport's release of Attitude revolutionized the way wrestling games look and sound. The WWF Superstars' faces and bodies were scanned with stunng accuracy and detail. Along with visuals, each competitor's theme music and (partial) entrance was added as well. Collision errors and long loading aside, this game is something else. However, the controls were less than responsive. Acclaim used the Mortal Kombat button combos for each set of moves and, to be frank, it was a like Chris Beniot, a pain in the neck.What to say... Code veronica sure looks nice but does it play well? In my  opinion it does not. The story is boring and a bit over done. Am I not the  only one who is sick of blasting away at zombies? It's just getting old.  For those who love the resident evil series, you will love this game. For  anyone else looking for something fresh look elsewere.They work fine but i feel like they have a little lag to the controls when i use it on my controller. And out of the two, one is already ripping. They get the job done but i don't think they will last very long.So how does Resident Evil Code: Veronica compare with the previous RE games? Despite the new look and outstanding visuals, Resident Evil Code: Veronica hasn't really offered anything new, and instead delivers more of the same RE gameplay.
The story is very awkward. As the game progresses, Code: Veronica's storyline begins to lack the cool plot twists and startling mysteries found in the last Resident Evils. RE:CV relied on too much puzzle-solving to drive the story. There aren't any interwinding plots like before. Instead, the story reveals a weak cast of characters. This includes transvestites and unnecessary characters who have nothing to do with the main plot and RE storyline.
As you might expect, the graphics are mind-blowing. Its the best-looking Resident Evil yet. Gone are the pre-rendered backgrounds and still perspectives of the old games. Code: Veronica's sound is good, but has some bad voice-acting.
What's disappointing is that the dodge feature from RE3: Nemesis has been removed and the auto-aiming is so annoying, causing you to aim at unwanted targets and wasting ammunition. RE:CV's puzzle-solving, box-pushing, and switch-pressing will eventually become tedious especially to experienced Resident Evil players.
Resident Evil Code: Veronica pales in comparison to the other Resident Evil games in almost every area. Once you forget about the awesome graphics, you're left with nothing but the same Resident Evil we've been playing all along.Controls takes some getting used to and the cam sometimes prevents you from seeing what's about to attack you and MOST of all this games crashes too many darn times!!okay i like this game becasue its the most fun one to play more than RE4 but if i saw this as a movie this is complete Hollywood Like Batman and Robin. Hollywood cast

Leonadio Decaprio as Leon S Kenndy

Jesscia Albea as Clair Redfield

Charlize Theron from Aeon Flux as Ada Wong

Framke Janssen as Annette Birkin

Ioan Gruffudd as  Willam Briken

Danny Davito as Brian Irons

Clive Owen as Ben Bertolucci

Will Smith as Marvin Branagh the Black guy 1st to die in the game

Ariel Gade as Sherry Birken

Karl Urban as Hunk

3 star was for its story i didn't like how Willam Kills himself with a shot for revengeThis game is pretty bad, and I don't mean that in the good way. The graphics are horrible(but when it came out it was considered okay graphics) and the story line is just rediculous. But this game brings back some memoried of me and my brother when we were younger, and I enjoy just having this game around the house just to remember those days.This game could have been a heck of alot better. The idea of the game is pretty stupid. They should have taken things from different episodes and made that the game. The graphics are good, since it's only playstation. The multiplayer is pretty fun. Too bad this game wasn't released later on and they could have put Jimmy and Timmy in it. I'm glad I bought this game though.well atleast one of them worked what else could you want for the price. the other one works too just not all the timeThis game is alright.  It is pretty fun and kind of scary but the game has alot of backtracking that gets annoying.  Dinos become very smart and mean.  This game is fun but just get ready for a couple of hours of boredom before you get to the real action.  The puzzles are pretty hard as well.  The music is pretty good.  This game is decent over-all.  Buy if you are looking for something different than zombies chasing you around.Console works. No modem of any kind included and of course my old one is in a box somewhere. No cables included at all.While playing the game you realize there isn't much variety. The bike is really hard to control. Overall though, the worst part of the game is that it is only a 1 person game. It would be better if you could race against another player and not just the clock. My 7 year old daughter doesn't even play with it, she prefers to try to compete with me or her dad. So, if you have a child that likes to play alone they might enjoy it. Otherwise it would probally collect dust.have to say i had to do many things to this dreamcast as it did not even play the games and the battery was messed up. I poked the reader to get the games working and replaced the battery all together with its holder and i got myself a working dreamcast again.I have used these for months.

out of no where no matter what happened it always looked like the joystick always was stuck going right. no matter what game or what controller i used, it always was going right. The other one is fine though.

If you find one that is better quality definitely go with that one instead of these.

Cool idea though...Eh. Sorry but this title does not deserve the title RE3. While the gameplay was exceptional, this game did not capitalize as a follow up to arguably a top 3 survival horror title in RE2. The story is to simplistic and replay value is horrendous. While the other games introduced different and compelling stories, this did nothing but introduce Nemesis following you around.Nemesis was obviously an expansion of the Mr. X element found in senario B of Resident Evil 2. Upon each encounter with him the screen flashes white, where you must make a choice between two options of how Jill will handle the situation. For example, you get to choose between hiding in a chest or running out the door. The game takes place mostly in the streets of Raccoon city and there are more zombies. A quick turn around 180 degree move was implemented whick makes running away easier. Also, you only can only play as Jill as the main character. The graphics are better than RE2's but the theme is not as dark which takes away from the mood.

The controls and camera angles are the same as the games before it, but what drags this game down is the weak story and regenerating zombies. Things have gotten a bit cheesy this time around, I can't really tell what it is but it feels like a washed up version of RE. It's like zombies are now common place and the novelty of the idea was wearing off at the time RE3 came out. It's the story that doesn't bring much to the table that really makes the game feel dull. Combine that with the wack controls, the dated ink ribbon save system, and the limited inventory space, and what you get is the negative aspects of the Resident Evil series without the soul/personality.

The best feature is the Nemesis element but that even at times gets annoying. The choice system sometimes punishes you for logical choices where an option seems like you'll be able to run away and the other indicates that you want to stay and fight but the outcome is actually the opposite. It's like those 'choose your own adventure' games where you make an innocent choice and jump to the given page, only to find you got gang raped by baboons... or something like that.

Because the streets are more open there are a lot of dead ends and back tracking, and what pissed me off was that zombies would regenerate for no reason, or maybe for the reason to show 'you can never clear out a whole city of zombies'. Whatever. Because the story is pretty mediocre I didn't get much satisfaction from beating the game aside from finally being able to put it down. That was back then. Now with the recent play through taking turns with my brother, we died a stupid death and immediately decided "forget this game". Technically it's not broken, it's just the overall feeling of indifference that gave no incentive to soldier on. Luckily Capcom was able to rebound with Code Veronica. 3 Stars.Nemesis is one scary mess!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

So beware!!

He seems to be around every corner imaginable, and he's quite invincible, until the end, so don't get those hopes up! :-)

A decent run-through, but a bit difficult.

Difficulty: 7
Difficulty, compared the hardest Resident Evil (RE Remake): 6
Graphics: 6.5
Characters: 6
Sound: 6.5
Replay-ability: 6 (You get more guns, I believe as well as other hidden bonuses).

3.5 stars.Resident Evil 3: Nemesis - Circa 2000

GOOD:
- Nemesis enemy adds a new twist to the game and makes it more intense
- Good story, with twists and turns
- Some nice bonus mini games to unlock

BAD:
- Graphics look pretty dated
- Voice acting is not that great
- Controls feel dated

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:
- Slow moving "survival horror" game, which is more about moving boxes, managing items, and unlocking doors then actually fighting for your life
- A Sc-Fi horror game set in a city over run with zombies, and a super zombie called Nemesis

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:
- Resident Evil 2
- Dino Crisis 2
- Silent Hill
- Alone in the dark

ADDITIONAL NOTES:
- Half of this game takes places during the events of Resident Evil 2
- There is a remake of this game for the Nintendo Game Cube, which doesn't really upgrade anything
- The playable character (Jill) was also one of the playable characters in the first Resident Evil
- In Japan Resident Evil 3: Nemesis is called Biohazard: Last EscapeI PURCHASED IT FOR MY HUSBAND BECAUSE THE ONE HE HAS WAS DAMAGED IN A FLOOD AT OUR HOME. HE KEPT HIS IN ALMOST NEW CONDITION, ALWAYS WRAPPED UP. I PURCHASED THIS ONE HOPING TO CHEER HIM UP ABOUT LOSING HIS. IT TOOK WEEKS TO GET HERE. IT WASNT SHIPPED UNTIL 1 WEEK AFTER I INQUIRED WHERE IT WAS. IT WAS A LOD DIRTIER THAN DESCRIBED. HE SPENT ABOUT 1 HR CLEANING IT. HE WAS HAPPY TO GET IT, I WAS DISAPPOINTED IN THE SHIPPING AND CONDITION.One of the coolest things Dreamcast offered was the VMU. After all, it was a Gameboy like memory card that fit into the controller perfectly and gave it a little screen. Yeah, wow, a screen. I still don't see how the screen is useful. In Sonic Adventure it displays a freaky little Chao pretty much the whole time. In Crazy Taxi it just had an animation loop. So the ugly useless screen is out for me until I find a game that uses it. Then the buttons. WHAT ARE THE BUTTONS FOR? It goes IN the controller and the buttons are COVERED UP. When I take it out it just sits like a brick and does not display anything. So why the cute little D-pad and tiny little A/B? As a memory card it functions well and is conveniently placed. Yet after five games I ran out of memory. FIVE GAMES! My Gamecube memory card has close to 20 games on it and is only half full. Even my junky third party PS2 memory card holds more. I could hardly fit a Chao onto it. So, while this is the official memory card, you might be better off with a third party model.The VMU has some cute features like mini games and it can be your watch so you know what time it is. It has other cool features. But i don't reccomend it because all it holds is 200 blocks of memory. Get the 4 slot 200 block each slot memory cards. It worked great for me. I just forgot what brand it was made by so youll have to look for it closely if you want it. The VMU is just kinda a waste of money. ONLY GET ONE OF EM DONT EVEN THINK OF GETTING 2!I really loved playing RE2, but this installation to the series wasn't as good.
I beat the game very quickly, and did not see much need to go back and play again (like the dual storylines and multiple endings RE2  had).
The Nemesis following me around thoughout the entire game was just  plain annoying.  For key plot points, it made perfect sense... but at other  times he just ran around after me while I was trying to explore.
You only  switch characters once, and for a short amount of time.
All in all, I was  not as impressed by this game as I had expected.  I definitely recommend  renting/buying RE2 (it will take you longer to finish, that's for sure),  and then renting RE3 if you are still interested in the series.This review is directed more towards the gamer that is looking to get into older systems, because I do get the feeling that most (not all) of the love that the Dreamcast gets comes from people that owned one from the get go.  I have been a gamer since the Colecovision/Atari days, and I do still very much appreciate good old fashioned games, but something tells me that many (again, not all) people that have grown too accustomed to 2 anologue sticks will have a hard time going back to 1 stick for 3D games.  Personally, PSone 3D games haven't aged well with me either, and have preferred the Sega Genesis for my old school kick.

The Dreamcast does offer a decent set of adventure and survival horror games, but is rather sparse in RPGs and platformers - If you love RPGs (and little else), then this system is not for you.  There are a couple of really good ones (Skies of Arcadia, Grandia 2), however, they are also offered on other systems, which might also be of interest.  The Dreamcast also doesn't offer much for the FPS lovers that have gotten into the genre after the PS2 and original XBOX came out.  Yes, there are a few (Unreal Tournament, Quake, Half Life), but most that love 2 sticks with their FPSs will probably squirm with 1 stick.

Now, where the Dreamcast's library really shines is 2D fighters and space shooters.  If you absolutely love either, then the Dreamcast is pure heaven, and buying one is practically a no brainer.  Actually, you can throw 3D fighters in there too since games like the original Soul Calibur and the Power Stone series are still incredibly fun.  Sports games are another strong suit for the library if you don't mind playing with outdated rosters (Sega really gave EA a run for their money).

Sega also had a knack for releasing some quirk that was easy to fall in love with - Games like Chu Chu Rocket and Ooga Booga are still  very fun multi-player games.  Unfortunately, some of that good quirk (Samba de Amigo, Seaman) are best used with accessories that have gotten rather expensive and tough to come by (although, I'm sure collectors won't mind at all).

In the Dreamcast's favor is that it has gotten cheap.  Although some of the games that makes the system a worthwhile purchase have gotten expensive, there are still some moderately priced options that are totally decent for those with a passing curiosity for the system.

I do view this as a very niche system, and I don't think that it will appeal to everyone.  Again, this review is geared more towards people that never grew up with (or owned) a Dreamcast.  I do think that ANY gamer could probably have some fun with this system, but I also think that many of the passerbys that picked one up years later will wonder what all the fuss was about.  Sure, it was revolutionary in it's heyday, but that doesn't mean much to people that are in love with their PS3s, Wiis, and 360s (or people that simply skipped the Dreamcast on their way to a PS2, Gamecube, or Xbox).

If you're thinking about picking up a Dreamcast, I would suggest doing a little homework to make sure that the library suits your tastes.  Although, it is not expensive, you might end up spending a bit on games just to find out that you're really not that into it.I will state why I like and don't like the Dreamcast.
_pros_
Good graphics
4 controller ports
56K modem built in
2 mem. card slots per controller
small size
_cons_
very NOISY
no dvd player
very small amount of games
the games stink!
cheap controllers
Even though the Ps2 is alot better system the Dreamcast is cool. It was far ahead of its time though. And the games were absolutely horrible. There were very few good ones and no, Sonic is not one of them. Athough it is a good system I would recommend getting a Playstation 2. The Dreamcast is dead and they are not making any more games for it.If you have a 3dfx card, if you have a more advanced card like TNT2 or  Geforce, just don't update your drivers and you should be alright.  You  don't get all the graphic benefits but it goes pretty fast in 32 bit mode  at 1024 x 768.  Nice selection of cars and cocpits too.  Music very good.  Engine noise could have been better, too synth, but better than most racing  games.  I haven't driven in a while but I know what it's like to go above  the speed limit on a winding road. and this game is decent at simulating  it(especicially if I play in a pitch dark room)This system has good graphics, but it was released between the time of ps and ps2. Sega whould have waiting  a year. While they do that, they should have upgraded the system. Therefore, this system was not in the competition of gcn, xbox, and ps2. nothing more to say... its a disapointment that i bought this piece of junk for the price of 3 ps1 which is way better. there are only 20 games for this thing. im sure NEVER gonna buy any sega consoles ever.I was going to buy Dreamcast,... but, I heard people keep saying
that Dreamcast breaks a LOT.
I gave 3 stars because I haven't used it Yet.
Thank you for pay attentioning!i bought it to finish my tekken collection,it runs well and still runs well, no problemsYou know those games that the magazines all say is cool and your friends tell you about and it's the talk of the year, and when you buy it it's great, but your playing something else in a week. I think Tekken 3 is one of those games. I'll be honest, the game itself is fun, but repetative. You'll soon find that all of the characters and levels never change, and the Tekken Force mode does very little to improve. It, just like the game, gets old. I guarantee you will play the game all the way through just to unlock all the player videos though. If you can get the game used and VERY cheap, buy it. It's a fine game for a while, but nothing you'll play for years.For those of you who have not played the Tekken game series, it is a 3D fighting game; that uses the same button configuration as Street Fighter 2 (Fierce Kick, Medium Kick, Weak Kick). What makes Tekken different from other fighting games are the moves, smooth animations and the cinematic movies for each character that is used to beat the game (you also get a new fighter when you beat the game), however that becomes the point of the game, seeing these movies. Each movie unravels part of a mystery (as to why your even playing the game). A person can beat the game in 20 minutes, because each fight only lasts about 20 seconds, so the pace is pretty fast and you don't need experience to beat the game. Unfortunately there is not much noticeably different from Tekken 2.I'm glad I had the opportunity to play this game, since I love the Star Ocean franchise.  It can, however, be a little slow.Thought this was for the regular Game Boy, so we had to return it.  I can't say if it worked or didn't, cuz it wasn't the right cord for a regular Game Boy.Star Ocean is an amazing game. However don't let the commercials it had fool you it is very linear in plot. The characters don't have very much  personality. But it has many interesting and unique points to it. It does  have many endings, but the ending is not a movie and it is not chosen as  much by actions taken that have a real effect on the plot as. It is by  little things and how much character kill monsters with each other and how  they treat each other that actually chooses your ending.
As far as game  play it a lot better then average. It has many unique points to it. There  is a skill system for creating items from other things. Also there is a  weird real time combat system where you can walk around up down left and  right to dodge but when you attack you just walk up to the enemy. However  the characters are not balanced the two main characters well probably never  leave your party being the most powerful. The voices have been translated  which is something I loved but I was not crazy about the music.
As far as  plot I do love the plot. You are either Claude from space who accidentally  gets teleported to a planet where he meets Rene and then is accused of  being someone they call the hero of light. Or you are Rene the person who's  past is a bit mysterious for a while who meets Claude when he is sent to  the planet. Which ever character you are the game well move in the same  direction though and be 90% the same so don't worry to hard over which  character.
The graphics are nice. Most of the character pictures look  good except for the 3 eyed characters who don't look very well done. The  enemies normally don't look very good but the background they are in looks  nice even though graphics were not this games strong point.
And finally  as far as length of time it can stay interesting it can stay around for a  long time. As an RPG after you beat it there isn't anything left to do with  it. It does last a while though. It should take you around a week to beat  if you have a lot of spare time and play it more then 4 hours a  day.
Overall I recommend buying Star Ocean but there are other games you  may want to get first.This game was immense.  The sheer volume of options in character development was overwhelming.  If you want a game on a grand scale, this is the one for you.  The storyline is very good and the skill system was a  very good idea.  Characters are not developed enough, but interaction  between them was interesting, especially the way that it affected the game.  The final battle is unfairly difficult.  It requires more skill than luck  to complete.  Replay value is probably this games greatest attribute.  Because the game is so affected by your actions, it can be very different.  Also, there are a wide variety of characters that you can use.  These  things combined with the skill system can make this into a somewhat  different game each time you play it.  If you are not short on patience,  this can be a very fun game with a lot of replay value.I had heard all the hype about Virtua Fighter 3tb for the Dreamcast, and when I saw it for cheap I picked it up expecting a hell of a fighting game.  What I got was a mixed bag, this game is nowhere as fun as people say and can't hold a candle to other fighting games like Soul Calibur and Dead or Alive 2 for the Dreamcast in terms of graphics, play modes, and playability.  The graphics don't even look like Dreamcast graphics, they look like the game was developed on the Sega Saturn, but the cons end there.  The gameplay is deep however, the fighting styles take a lot of time to master for each character, and after you do the game is a breeze.  It's a decent fighting game, but nowhere as good as it is said to be.  ...I am not a huge fan of the 3D fighting games, I prefer 2D fighters, but I must say Virtua fighter 3tb is a great game. I bought this game a few days ago and played it, and I liked it. It is different from 2D fighters in the sense that it adds more realism to the bouts, no fancy fireballs or stuff like that, just pure strategic hand to hand contact fighting. It takes a while to know your moves but once you get it you will enjoy this game. I gave it three stars because I still haven't learned the moves, and I hear Soul Calibur is the better choice, but do not dismiss this game just yet, it will definetely deliver.This is just one of those titles that you pop in and expect to be taken back to a similar time. Eh, maybe not so much as you'd think. It's not a bad game by any means, but it is one of those early 3D games that just hasn't gotten the camera down quite yet. That, and Big the Cat.

Buy this game if you really want to go back down memory lane, but just remember to temper your enthusiasmThis game is broken down into three components. There is the adventure mode that is quite subpar, minigames that are mediocre, and finally the stages that are very fun to play. Once you clear a stage or minigame on the adventure mode, it unlocks and you may just play it by itself from the main menu when the game boots up. You may play as 6 different characters, all with their own unique stories, stages, and minigames. I thought this was a brilliant implementation of the game. Although, admittedly the Sonic and Tails stages are way more fun the the stages for Big the Cat, Knuckles, or the robot. The Amy stages are somewhere in the middle.

The controls are somewhat frustrating at times, particularly in the adventure mode. The NPC humans in the adventure mode look downright like stick figures graphically, and stand there like manequins unless you knock into them. Then they flinch for a moment and go right back to their original position.

The adventure mode plays like an exploration game. You must figure out what to do to get to the next cutscene, minigame, or stage. You must find the object or area that will take you to it. This is a rather mundane and boring, sometimes frustrating, part of the game.

Sometimes the camera angles in this game make it so you can not see your character or get any sense of direction. Again, this is most often in the adventure mode.

The cutscenes in the adventure mode are well presented and timed. The fade from the adventure mode to the cutscenes is well paced. The graphics look great, and soundtrack well performed.

I highly recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of the sonic characters, as you can play and develop so many of them. If you like action or 3D platformer type games, you will probably enjoy this game as well.

This game is definitely worth a play though to see if you like it. I did, I own it, have beaten the game with several of the characters, and still enjoy playing it to this day. However, this game is hardly the best the Dreamcast has to offer.Usually I'm an adventure game fanatic at heart, but this game was bought for me as a gift and I found myself greatly caught up on it as soon as I installed it on my computer.
The game is very much a dungeon bash situation.  You create a character and assign them attributes, buy them weapons, and then go out to the local dungeon and pound every monster you meet, bather up as much treasure as you can, and then buy better weapons so you can kill even more monsters.
While you're in town the villagers will tell you about items that have been stolen that you can find and return for rewards, or people who ask for your help in killing a particularly nasty monster, or they tell you a bit about the big creature you'll find yourself facing at the end of the game.  Your ultimate goal will be to gather several crystals together to gain an item that will allow you to take on the evil dragon lord at the end of the game, but there's dozens of other quests to keep you occupied meanwhile.
One of the most innovative features to the game is that it maps each area and dungeon differently for every new game you start, plus it juggles the quests around so that no one game is exactly like another.  It was an interesting detail that wasn't necessary, but was nice of the programmers to add.
All in all, I was quite pleased with this game.  There's times when one gets bored with confusing puzzle games and you just want to run around in a dungeon and hack up monsters.  Darkstone offers adventure by the bucketload, and will hold your attention for awhile.Let's not mince words here: Clayfighter 63 1/3 is a poorly put-together game. The game had a lot of possibilities, but everything lacks polish. Characters are missing frames of animation, backgrounds look decent but unexceptional, and the fighting engine lacks the strategy of Street Fighter, the speed of Killer Instinct, or the playability of Mortal Kombat. In any normal world, this would be a one star game.

Except somewhere along the way, Clayfighter 63 1/3 is so bad that it actually becomes good. Character design is pretty good, and the special moves and taunts are hilarious. The game is playable - not in any way that it can compete with the above-mentioned games, but it still makes you want to come back for another round, if just to see all the things the characters can do. There's also a bit more value once you unlock the secret characters, though it's frustrating that there's no save function that keeps these character unlocked.

Certainly not worth full retail price, but the N64 is dead now so you should be able to snag this game for dirt cheap. Also be on the lookout for the Sculptor's Cut version: this was a Blockbuster-only release, but most were sold off as pre-played games. It contains a hilarious singing intro, 4 new characters, and other enhancements.Sonic Adventure is a pretty good game.  I came into this one expecting a game like the old Sonic games.  It is nothing like that.  It really is a full-blown adventure!  Personally, I was looking forward to more side scrolling action.  Navigating the 3-D can get a bit tedious at times.  If you have no problems with that, then this game is for you!This is a really good game. Great graphics, good game play, and chalnging levels all are some of D3's major features. However, the graphics are so good that you need more then 64mg ram to play. my 333mg, 160 ram can run slow, and im not even on the higher graphics setting. Also the levels are way to hard. It sounds pathetic, but im stuck on level 2. Dont buy this game unless you are a interplay fantic.This is the one game that, by now, every Dreamcast owner already has. And deservedly so; it's easy to pick up and it's blindingly fast. Problem is, it's so fast, you'll blow right through it in a few hours. It's too bad Sega felt the need to tack on the other characters. All the non-Sonic levels are boring (especially the big cat levels where you fish). Then there's the terrible music. I recommend muting your TV and playing your own music on a CD player because the in-game music just doesn't work at all. Or you could listen to it for a good laugh.I waited over ten years to play this game!  I bought it over ten years ago, around 2000.  Even by that point it was in the "bargain bin" shelf of jewel cases.  Unfortunately, I was too busy in my life to play it and waited nearly a decade before I had enough free time.  Getting it running on Vista definitely took some moxie:  I would have saved hours if I had simply played through it ten years ago.

I had heard how original and fun the game was, but frankly it was a lot better before I actually sat down to play it, if you know what I mean.  Once you learn how to play, the campaign stages get quite repetitive and the game's "sense of humor" gets trying.  Additionally, I feel the gamemaker's attempt to shoehorn 3D into this game didn't add much and could have been completely dispensed with:  at least it should have been optional.  Finally, it ultimately gets to be unsatisfying to make your dungeons since the "fog of war" prevents you from planning intelligently, and the space you are given to dig in seems inadequate, even in the later campaign missions.

Anyhow, here are two big issues:

1.  The thing is full of bugs, and the company that made it is now defunct, so there won't be any more patches issued.  The latest official patch was 1.7.

2.  This was meant to run on "Windows 95 / 98 / Me," according to the packaging.  I've also never had a problem running it on XP.  It is possible to get it fully running on Vista or 7 and I am here to tell you it can be done.  Try some combination of these, starting with f, then d.

a.  Right click and run program as administrator.
b.  On the compatibility tab, set it to run in Windows 2000; disable visual themes, disable desktop composition, and
 disable display scaling on high DPI settings.
c.  Although DKII puts a shortcut on your desktop, I found have it not to work with Vista or 7:  you must go into the original Bullfrog folder and launch the game directly from the executable, keeping in mind a and b above.
d.  Right click on your desktop.  Under display settings, disable hardware acceleration.  If you can't do this sweepingly (e.g., because you have an NVIDIA, go to the NVIDIA control panel for DKII and disable virtually everything, especially texture filtering.
e.  Bear in mind that DKII not only runs its own executable, but it runs another program simultaneously which is actually the game engine.  The process shows as ip.exe.  So anything you do to the DKII.exe should also be done to that.
f.  Run DKII.  Go into the graphics options, uncheck all those boxes:  visual translucency, environment mapping, and especially the last:  hardware acceleration. Set shadow detail to 0.  What you do with gamma is irrelevant.
g.  You can get quite discouraged if you're going through all this and you keep getting those black squares on the menu screens.  But if you go into the graphics options and keep finding that, upon being restarted, the game has rechecked "hardware acceleration" without your permission, do not be angry.  Simply accept.  Go back into the main menu and load an actual pet dungeon or a campaign dungeon.  When DKII reloads one of those, that check should go away and stay away even after you close the game.  In other words, when you uncheck "hardware acceleration," the game must actually load a dungeon for this to take effect.  If you simply uncheck it and exit the game, it won't take.
In addition, I have posted a link to a Youtube video in the comments that I found helpful in this struggle.
h.  It is not my experience that setting graphics options to low or running the game in 640x480 is going to help you at all when trying to get it to run under Windows Vista and Windows 7.
i.  It shouldn't matter whether you applied the patch or not:  I have gotten it to run both ways on Windows Vista and Windows 7, although only with the final 1.7 patch:  I don't know about the three or four patches that came before that, all of which are still available on the internet as of this writing.
j.  If all else fails, be aware that it might be your sound card that's causing a problem, not your video card.  This game seems to like simple sound cards and has a reputation for not working on account of the newer, snazzier ones.  If all else fails, try disabling your spiffy sound card in the Device Manager to see if the onboard sound on your mother board will give this a pass.

By the way, I want the world to know that it took me longer to figure out how to play this under Windows Vista and Windows 7 than I actually spent playing the game!

Hope this helps someone.I played this game in the past and it is fun. Seller sold me a defective game though and it randomly shuts down during game play.Ages in the making and a bit of a disappointment, 'Mechwarrior 3' isn't sufficiently different to the ancient, venerable 'Mechwarrior 2', and suffers from the lumbering nature of mech-to-mech combat - even the best simulation of big, slow robots fighting each other boils down to a series of largely static duels. It's not complex enough for there to be a strategy hook, and not cartoony enough to be fun on a visceral level. Fittingly for a sequel to one of the nicest-looking games of 1994, the presentation is excellent, although the fantastic music from the original game has been ditched in favour of some anonymous, inferior imitations. As before, the weapons you have are an odd bunch - although you can kit your mech out with a variety of equipment, you eventually realise that only heavy lasers and heat sinks are any use. Machine-guns and missiles are strangely ineffective, and it seems unsatisfying to spend the entire game 'painting' the legs of enemy mechs with weedy lasers. Despite a four-year wait, the game seems... underwhelming. Not bad as such, just very forgettable. There aren't many missions, and only one of them (in which you have to intercept a train) presents a major challenge, and when its over it just seems to fade from the mind. Except for the voice acting, which is fine, but having them say 'aff!' as a salutation, whilst true to the Battletech universe, sounds extremely camp. The intro movie is fantastic, by the way.After playing the demo for `Mechwarrior 3' I was less than inspired, and unlike the venerable `Mechwarrior 2', saw no reason to buying it. Well,  boredom and impulsiveness lured me into finally purchasing the game, mainly  because it was on special. Considering there is four years of development  and technology in `Mechwarrior 3' over Activision's older title,  `Mechwarrior 2' is the better. Sure the graphics are inferior and there are  play touches evident in the newer game, but there is a much grander feel to  wherein you have to combat Jade Falcon Clan across several worlds, whereas  in MW3 you take the role as a mechwarrior with Eridani Light Horse tackling  Clan Smoke Jaguar on only one world. This lack of scope hampers the game  tremendously, plus the game also lacks the connectivity that MW2 had to the  entire Battletech universe.
 Game setup is simple and once installed  the user is treated a rather nice opening segue of Light Horse forces  fighting a desperate battle against superior Clan forces and eventually  luring them into a trap. From there the player is given the option of  Campaign, Training, Instant Action, Multiplayer, Options & Credits from  the main screen. Training is tedious and drawn out, so I suggest using the  Instant Action option and scaling battles up as you become more and more  familiar with mech controls and systems. I haven't tried multi-player yet  simply because I know there are going to be way too many cowards cheating  for me to enjoy battling against other players. Campaign Mode deals with an  invasion of the Smoke Jaguar home world and using it as a stepping stone to  Strana Mechty in 3058. Yawn.
 Not much of a story here, I'm afraid,  and that's only half of the troubles for this game. It's buggy! While my  system exceeds system requirements by light years, the game routinely dumps  me back out to my Windows desktop, once after my `mech overheated and shut  down. Worse, the game's sound effects get so messed up that pressing an on  screen selector to move LRM-5's to your mech results in a burst of  auto-cannon fire issuing from your speakers instead of a beep! This happens  mainly in the arming & load out menus with sound effects overriding  what was originally there. It also happens in-game when your MFB's encircle  your mech unit to repair it, repair sounds are replaced by explosions,  weapons fire, `Mission Successful', `Mech power-up detected', etc. It gets  annoying fast. My jump jets on mech units have never once worked  properly.
 The graphics are a mixed bag of some very nice designs in  buildings and other structures that give a nice sense of scale while in  your mech. Terrain is quite good, but very limited in variety. The  battlemech's themselves are well designed, by surface bitmaps are very  busy, giving the mechs an extremely cluttered look. Mech animations have a  very nice look to them, conveying a sense of weight in motion. Microprose,  for some reason, changed the damage model, and suddenly `time on target'  becomes a necessity in order to deliver any appreciable damage you your  target. If your Med Pulse Laser does 5 points of damage and you do not  concentrate it on a single location, such as a limb, it gets spread around  to the rest of the mech. Very quickly does the player learn the value of  twin UB-AC 10's! Or, god help you, twin Gauss Cannons! Whoohoo! I actually  made a Daishi in the Instant Action section that mounted 4 Gauss, it had  limited ammo, but anything I shot stopped shooting back.
 Microsoft  will be doing Mechwarrior 4, and given they are also making the X-Box,  (sounds like something Charles Xavier might make to battle Magneto or  something), I am not sure if PC gamers will see it. However, it is also  looking that the X-Box will be based on PC architecture which means the  games might be cross compatible. For now, however, `Mechwarrior 3' is a  mixed bag of some very good things, but perhaps, at least in my case, too  many bad things to make it very much fun. Maybe I'll try the Multiplayer  option and see if it gets any better. Until then I still have my old copy  of Mechwarrior 2 kicking around, and there's a 3Dfx version of Mercenaries  available as well. This game could have been so much better, but too many  problems drag it back into the realm of mediocrity.First off, why do top designers make mistakes like  building a game that's so dark I can't see the gamma controls in options? Believe it or not, they used a dark blue control for the gamma and the page is black. The other  controls on the page are light green. This little artistic flourish sent me  on a three day journey of frustration to play the game and get the  brightness up. Navy on black is idiotic. Too many designers use tiny  letters and obscure illegible fonts for games. We don't all have 21 inch  monitors you know. Please keep an eye on the fools you hire to deal with  the simple things like choosing fonts and background colors. Now on to  other issues.
The story is intriguing. The opening music was great and  got me interested inspite of the rather choppy and low quality cut scenes.  What happens to that great opening music later? It turns into action,  disco, buttkickin game music that I hate.
Training could be more  involved. I needed to play over and over to get to any proficiency with the  many controls and seemingly endless information kiosks. I don't really play  games because I want to read so why not just give all the information on  the mfd or pfd device in voice format instead of having us read all this  drivel? Better yet, build a training  mission with us actually having a  stress free environment to really work on skills and become familiar with  controls. Hey! Here's an idea. You know those training missions I fly off  on, but I really don't go I just watch the movie? (I wonder if my ugly  woman is still waiting for me?) Why not really send me on that mission to  learn? WHAT A THOUGHT!
Why can't I choose a weapon or get some health  when I'm in user mode? The action doesn't pause and the monsters just keep  pounding away and sneaking up which I just find stressful. I know you're  trying to put me in the situation, but I like to pause and think. You can  forget that in this game.
Here's another annoyance. You go to this  vending machine to buy bullets and health and soda or whatever and first  you have to select what you want on this complicated interface after you  figure out what it costs from the tiny numbers buried off on the side.  That's already annoying, but then you have to pick the items up  individually and then you have to go to user mode and "USE" them.  Just forget it if you're bein attacked and most likely you will be. A  possible reason for all this difficulty is that you should learn to turn  off the security before trying to purchase anything. Once again, this is  annoying to me.
Is this a new genre? Action, adventure, role playing?  Sort of. I think of it as an action adventure with a tedious learning curve  and a lot of dull reading. It's a boring second year college course. The  psionics have me interested, the inability to use guns is frustrating at  first and there's too many monsters to deal with wrench style.
The  ghosts are great. I didn't have any kind of religious moment or anything  like I've read some people describe, but then I knew the ghosts were there  because I'd read the review beforehand and now, so have you. The monsters  or ex crew or whatever they are, are scary, but they are also blurry and  unlike some people, this game didn't really scare me to death and make me  wary when I'm alone or anything like that.
There are a lot of good games  out right now and I'm having a hard time devoting much time to this time  demanding game. I do appreciate the innovation involved in this game, but I  also loathe the geeky qualites of unnecessary complication. Then again,  without all the skills, this would be just like half life or doom or  whatever. Doom with ghosts.SS2 is a good quality game. Like others, I find the atmosphere creepy and the elements of gameplay innovative, but the same elements of gameplay are just too difficult to adjust to. I made the first mistake of assuming that if I brought up the items screen, the game would pause (thanks to conditioning from Deus Ex and Morrowind). It didn't, and I got the snot slapped out of me by a hybrid. Lesson learned: I made damn sure to clear an area out first before I did anything with inventory. That quip aside, this is a fairly decent game. The only other problem is that as you progress, the ability to travel between areas perviously explored becomes less and less, and you have less freedom to explore whole areas since many places are closed off (it feels like being herded down a ramp to the ending, like when on the Rickenbauker). As a note, I borrowed this game from a friend, since I refuse to purchase a game that is older than Deus Ex, but cost more than Deus Ex. If the graphics were stellar and on par with Half-Life, I could understand. But seriously, charging 30 plus dollars for an older game such as this, when I got the GOTY edition of Deus Ex for 9.99 just sort of kills the initiative to buy it; not to mention it is a gross rip-off of customers. I would consider purchasing it if the price went down to say...8.99 at the least, 12 flat at the most. Again, great game (when a few flaws) but not worth the cost when all you get is a jewel case and a cd. Do you really think someone is going to fork out 35.00 for just a cd case and no manual? Didn't think so.In the varied and overcrowded plateu of first-person games, it's always  nice to see someone try to break away from the mold, but unfortately,  System Shock 2 comes a little too late.  Having missed the chance to beat  Half-Life to the punch, this game is a fun play, but one best borrowed from  a friend.This game is not a nice arcade style Sim game at all.  What I do like about the Blitz football games though is its ease of gameplay for most  players.  Anyone can pick this little game up and play it for a while.  It  to me makes a nice two player game. Pull it out when you got a few pals  over your place and it makes for a good bit of fun.  Dont try Blitz however  if you are looking for a game to keep realistic seasons and stats, try  Gameday if you are in that Market instead.I bought this game thinking that it would take up hours of my time, and that it would be fun. I was right in thinking that it was fun, but the game is WAY too short. There's almost no strategy in this game... if you know how to mash the buttons repeatedly for a long time then you'll beat this game in about twenty minutes. Sure there are a plethora of weapons to use, and you can play with a friend cooperatively (or against each other) but it won't entertain you forever. Although you get to chose from three players (and chose from three differennt starting points) all routes in the game are basically the same. If you like fighting games with tons of weapons, then get it. However, if you want to be satisfied with a game for more than twenty minutes, I'm sure you can find something better...Dynamite Cop is a 1-2 player, 3D beat-em-up in the tradition of Final Fight and Streets Of Rage. You choose from one of three characters (plus a couple of secret ones) and pummel your way through room after room of thugs. The graphics and sound are decent, and retain the same feel as Diehard Arcade. The action is quite frantic compared to other games in the same genre, and it is a bit on the short side (it only takes about 15-20 minutes to beat), but Dynamite Cop does offer a few new fun elements.  The ability to use almost anything as a weapon is one of the main draws of the game.  Pistols, grenades, rocket launchers, tables, chairs, and even food can be utilized to dispose of opponents.  Torturing the enemies with grapples and throws is also an extremely fun feature. It could have been longer and more in depth, but if you are looking for a 2 player brawler and some cheap thrills, Dynamite Cop is a decent pick. Especially if you consider that there aren't many quality games of this type around anymore.This was a little boring and you couldn't go through alot of adventures. But the fun side of it is that baby mario cries on the floor when you lose.It only seems to selectively work. But the fact that it works at all is a victory to me. It just won't load Diddy Kong Racing and Cruis'n World. It also comes with preloaded cheats which is a great time saver.Good when it works used it for month then stop working not woth buying it new i did it and it brokeBut in rare cases such as this, I'm willing to make a one of a rare, unique, okie dokie exception.This game had it's pros, and it had its cons.  Pro - fun for everyone, good clean fun  Con - nothing really to difficult, just making sure you stop the line on another line.  Pro - Lots of different ways to play, you can play tournaments, or practice, putting challenges, and you have to get birdie badges.  Con - Usually Mario is the bomb guy, but in this game he's a really bad golfer :}  But overall, this is a good game, that a five year old can play, so go out and get your copy today!
JesseI got this game at a great price and couldn't pass it up.  At first it was kind of fun, but after a while I noticed that I wasn't feeling too hot.  Something about the 3D motion in this game makes me nauseated.  It's plenty difficult and the multiplayer is pretty fun, but this game is not for the squeamish.This game is a little on the boring side. The graphics are good. A nice twist on the board game. The AI is a bit dumb.I've probably seen all of them from the WWII era, from the old 1942 Pacific air war to IL-2 Sturmovik.  This is one of the most entertaining.  It flies pretty well and the graphics are almost as good as some of the later ones.  It has given me a lot of pleasure.

I rank the best ones as follows: IL-2 (Sturmovik); Janes WWII Fighters; Microsoft's Combat Flight Simulator 2 (Pacific Theater); Microsoft's Flight Simulator (WWII Europe Series); and finally this one:  European Air War,by Microprose.

My ranking is based on quality of graphics, smoothness of manuever with a good computer (mine is a 1.8 Ghz Gateway Pentium 4 with a half-gig of RAM and ATI) and the flight modelingof the aircraft (how close to the real aircraft they are in their performance).  My judgment on the latter is based on the fact that I have flown a variety of real prop driven aircraft since I soloed in 1946, as well as many radio-controlled models.

Joseph Pierre, USN (Ret)A game that could of been one of the best games in the world for me. I love Star Wars, from movies to games. And Stratagy, sci-fi, battle games are my favorite (usually) out of all electronic games(N64, PC, Playstation, etc.). But this was a dissapointment. For one thing, the battle graphics are horrendous!! On the battle screen, one starfighter=a squadron of 12 (unless they are weakened), and shoot one laser to symbolize them battleing. And they fly around like they were on strings!! Now how cheesy is that? The Capital ships in the battle screen are low in detail and have the symbolizing lasers. Also, it is a pain to get the ships to do what you want them to do. All in all, the battle scenes are one of the worst I've ever seen. But I can sat It could be worse.  Now in normal game play it is a little better. The main Galactic display is fairly easy to use an descent graphics. Also the sound and music in this area are OK, too. Though it is more of a pain than a good time to start a new game. It takes several hours just to get of the ground. Few planets have shipyards and construction bases, and the ones who do have them are slow and transporting buildings all over the galaxy can take forever.  One good thing about this game is it has a breif encylopedia of some of the things in the Star Wars Universe  I think Force commander was another attempt of this game on the ground instead of in space, and it was much better but still hard to use. I think the next Star Wars Rebellion type game should be more like a Star Wars version of Pax Imperia: Entiment Domain.  Final Verdict: 2.5/5Well as far as the person who sold this to me goes, the game came as described and in a well timed manner and I would shop here again.  However, the game itself is just not as fun as I remembered.I like the feel and look of this more than the controller by nintendo but this will break a lot you  will be able to fix it sometimes currently, my joysticks is breaken but I can still play alright. If you do not have  young sibling or you are very careful go for this over nintendo othrwise go nintendo.The fact that this controller is cheap, USB Plug and Play ready, and so similar to the playstation controller is the reason it's a solid bet.

However here are the problems:

1. The directional pad is innacurate on precision. If you just need to walk around in a game its great, but if you need to hit a specific direction, it will come off usually as a diagonal.

2. The buttons are very loud and get stuck. The Green button doesn't pop out most of the time anymore. It seems like a small problem, but it can get very frustrating.

This is a good buy, but not your best choice. If you need a quick, cheap way to not having to use your keyboard, it's well worth your money.i bought this item at best buy ($12) for use with my NES emulator on my laptop. on the plus side, winXP recognizes this thing right away and you're good to go. however, like a lot of other users, i found the D pad to be a problem. i screwed in the "joystick" thingie and didn't find it made any difference. when i would hold it up or down, it would move in different (diagonal) directions. there were certain moves/functions i could not do in my NES games because of this. so yeah, it's usuable, if you don't need to hold it up or down for more than 1/2 a second. not bad for the price, but if you want full functionality, spend a few more bucks and get something better.Well, this is a bit tricky. Ya see, as far as light gun shooters go this is by far the best I've ever seen on any system, at any time. On the other hand, some things are just plain awful. Well, lets start with the good.
The graphics are just plain jaw dropping. The backgrounds and environments are a little simple, but the zombies and the way they react to being shot is insane. The first time I saw this game I couldn't believe me eyes. The sheer amount of enemies, the fast pace, the gruesome look. You won't really notice the bad when you're looking through the sight of a gun blasting down anything that moves trying to stay alive.
The way zombies react to being shot is amazing. You'll have to pump several rounds into the body to kill one, usually blasting a hole clean through them. Even a well placed headshot may not do the trick though, as some zombies will keep coming at you even with half their face blown clean off. Others are armored and armed to the teeth and know how to use tools for protection. It makes it quite interesting.
So far as zombie graphics and good shooting fun go, this game is simply unmatched. Story wise however, it fails so hard it hurts. The script and voice acting is just atrocious. One of the worse in video game history. I don't know if it's meant to be some kinda B movie joke, but it's not funny. It's just, plain, awful. Thankfully you can skip it all and save yourself the headache.
Sadly you can beat it in a single 30 minute sitting or so, but these games are never really all that long. A training mode adds some length, but that doesn't last long before it just gets dull. This isn't a deep game, this isn't genre busting... it's just a good and fun ol' fashion shoot em up with some gruesomely cool gore. I still play it whenever I'm in the mood for something different, and for the most part it's still a lot of fun. That's a lot of replay value. If you can still find it, it's real cheap these days. Great game to play with friends and after Trigun marathons. Well worth the sub $$$ range.
- Rirath_comthe game has som good qualities and som things other theam park games don't have includeing adjustable resurch and ride proformance and the ability to walk the park and ride the rides navigating the controls and menues is easy however u cant paint anything or change the colors its good but it cant compare to roller-coaster tycoon 2Sim Theme Park is a bad copy of Rollercoaster Tycoon, which was way better than Sim Theme Park. I you buy it buy it USED.I am yet to find an Electronic Arts game that does not provide me with hours of entertainment. However, with all the "Theme Park" simulation games on the web, I advise you to chose the Roller Coaster Tycoon Games.
Why do I advise you to chose the Tycoon games?
*The Roller Coaster Tycoon has better, more realistic, and more playable graphics. Of course if you are one who enjoys the cartoonist preception of the characters, this will be an okay feature. However, I recommend looking for screenshots of this game to see if you like the graphics.
*Sim Theme Park clogs up your computer system much worse than Roller Coaster Tycoon, so unless you have a pretty fast system, be prepared for some freezing, where with Roller Coaster Tycoon you can pretty much play with out annoying slowness.
*Sim Theme Park gets boring fast with its last of great rides, themes.
Don't get me wrong I love simulation games. (They are my ultimate favorite) But I sincerely recommend the Roller Coaster Tyoon Games. They cost less, have better reviews, better graphics (in my opinion) and more rides and themes, and in addition, they don't freeze up your older computer as much as Sim Theme Park.
As with most people reviewing this game, check out the Roller Coaster Tycoon games, I guarentee you cannot be disappoint with them.If you are a roller coaster or amusement park enthusiast, then you will find this game entertaining, at least for a while.  The problem with the game is that you can pretty easily build all of the rides and attractions, and then you don't really have that much to do.  This game simply lacks the mental challenges that are needed to make a game like this a masterpiece.
Overall, it has excellent animation, graphics, and virtual reality features, like when you ride your own roller coasters.
I would recommend this game for a novice "Sim" player or for children/teenagers.  Above that, it isn't challenging enough to make it worth your while.When I first got Sim Theme Park, I thought it would be a great game. A week later, it got very boring. Unlike Roller Coaster Tycoon, everything is very expensive! A trash can, for example, costs $100! In Roller Coaster Tycoon, a trash can costs $3! Also, there's this advisor that shouldn't have been so picky! He'll say your janitors' patrol areas aren't just perfect, or one person just littered! Big deal! Again, unlike RCT, it has only four themes; one per park. I also don't like the idea of Golden Tickets and Golden Keys, which you need to access other parks. It's really hard to get things just perfect, and since everything is expensive and you can't charge for rides, your cash balance is low all of the time until five years later (in game time). You don't have a very large selection of rides, especially at the start. Overall, this game really bites the dust, and if you don't have Roller Coaster Tycoon yet, get that instead.SIM THEME PARK is both complex and simple at once, which can get confusing.  It seems to be aimed at the grade school set, yet includes controls which end up being complex.  The 3D graphics are eye-poppingly fancy, and the rides and attractions are clever, but the theme parks don't seem real like they do in Roller Coaster Tycoon.  Nevertheless, this game is a fun addition to your sim library.
This game is equipped with a tutorial mode, which introduces us to an annoying little character who talks all the time, attempting to explain how each control works.  After I turned the tutorial-guy off, I found it much more pleasant to play this game in which you design a theme park complete with rides, sideshows, restaurants, a staff, and other attractions.
This game features parks with Disneyland-worthy themes such as Halloween (coffin restrooms!) and Prehistory (think a kinder, gentler Jurassic Park), which have clever rides and attractions.
One really cool feature is the "ride it" option which allows you to see your ride from the perspective of someone who is on the ride.  You can also see things from the perspective of security cameras.  This is fun, but the novelty wears off.
I enjoyed checking out the various types of theme parks in this game, which you get to play by earning golden keys (for reaching certain goals) but I ended up going back to Roller Coaster Tycoon, which I think is a superior game.  I give this game 3 stars for anyone over 12, but possibly more stars for anyone younger.Sim Theme Park/Theme Park World are part of what I like to think of as "the Bullfrog trilogy". These three games (this one, "Populous: The Beginning" and "Dungeon Keeper 2", all from British company Bullfrog) all use a similar (spectacular) graphics engine and all fall roughly into the "real-time strategy" category. There is a marvellous aesthetic sense which pervades each of them.

In STP/TPW, a sequel to 1994's "Theme Park", you lay down paths and theme park attractions, then open your gates to an ever-growing throng of youngsters eager to buy your burgers and fries right before going on a loop-the-loop 100mph roller coaster. (Vomit figures heavily into your equations.)

Rather oddly for a theme park sim (though absolutely typical for RTS) you hire researchers who research advanced rides for you--not to mention advanced concepts like "the gift shop" or "the restaurant". With the right balance of attractions and staff and financial savvy you can change your! park from a travelling-carny level experience to a nigh-DisneyWorld extravagazna.

Well, sort of. Each of the four parks has a specific theme and must stay within that theme. No Disneyland style division (Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, etc.) in a single park. Understandable given the strain that would put on the hardware--but unfortunate.

Like the other games in the Bullfrog trilogy, there is considerable "well, that's cool" factor. And Bullfrog created a "downloadable ride" patch which theoretically could give the product some real legs.

But there is even less actual =game= here than in the other two. And after you finish your first park, you'll find that you're playing the exact same game on your second park. And third. Every park has the same number and type of rides, sideshows, refreshment stands and miscellaneous objects.

Playing is not unlike eating a huge cone of cotton candy: Sweet, but not particularly satisfying.

It's also a good exa! mple of a product at cross-purposes with itself. There's considerable "toy" value in the game: It's a pleasure to build your park. Typical of Bullfrog games, the interface is clean, simple and rewarding. Experiencing the game from the first person is a real treat. But.

Every moment you take to smell the 50-ft. high artificial roses (Wonderland park) is a moment where something is going wrong in your park. This is where the "gameplay" comes in, unfortunately.

When you have grown your park to a good size, you'll be stopping whatever you're doing every minute or so to schedule repairs. Now, there's a simple rule: You don't run rides in the red, so you check your maintenance report and shut-down any rides that are going from yellow to red.

Thing is, it's so mechanical, it would've been easier to just set a bar for the point at which the mechanics would go repair things. They could shut the rides down when they got there. (The way it works now is you have to s! hut the ride down and wait for a mechanic to show up, or drop one there.)

This is true of the rest of the staff, too. They wander around their patrol areas, one presumes, because they don't have access to your big park map showing all the problem spots. And you can't stagger their break/work times, so they can all be waiting for an opening in the staff break-room while your park goes to heck.

If Bullfrog had taken that out, though, there wouldn't have been much left to do except adjust the amount of fries on the salt. And, typical of the implementation of "business simulation", you have to adjust each stand individually as you build it (or flip back to a stand that has the settings you want and click the global setting button).

There's the cross-purpose: Trying to make a business simulation out of it. Building a park at the micro-level is fun--managing it at that level is a chore.

If they had gone the other way with the business simulation and allo! wed you to handle things like promotions, suppliers, unions, and lawyers, one of your pleasures could have been taking a break from it all to go to the park. (But that wouldn't really fit neatly into the categories that all games Must Now Belong.)

Anyway, it's hard to actually dislike such a good-natured, easy-to-play game and there's a lot of fun here despite the flaws. Hence, three stars.Sim Theme Park is Bullfrogs answer to the crown that was stolen from them by Roller Coaster Tycoon ( Bullfrog made the FIRST theme park developer game Theme Park) and comes close but falls short in many ways. First the  good stuff, STP has a fantastic graphic engine which makes the rides look  fantastic. The ability to ride the rides you make and walk through your  park is a major plus. But, the bad part is that the game lacks depth. Beat  the first park and the game is basicly over, you get 3 new parks but there  just the same rides with diffrent looks. The game requires a 3D card and  some hefty space on your computer to run some what smoothly. If your  looking for a great game, with more options and fun, that can run on your  computer no matter what go with Roller Coaster Tycoon and youll be hooked  and love every minute of it. By the way, don't pay 40 bucks for it either,  id sell my copy of it, without the box, just instructions and game for 20  or less. Only get this if your a diehard theme park fan or are looking for  a couple hours of graphic bliss.This is a pretty fun game, but you have to buy most of the cars and tracks from the online store. The game claims to provide so much more content, however, the "scam" is, that you don't get that content with the game. You need to buy it. If you win races you will get a message saying "YAY! You can now purchase your new car from the online store!!!"

OMG REALLY??? I CAN SPEND MORE MONEY ON A GAME I ALREADY PAID FOR??? NO WAI!!!!

But overall, if you don't mind playing with the same default cars all the time, it's a pretty fun game. I really only play online mode, which allows you to race against other people. The computer on this game is WAY to easy so single player isn't any fun. You could drive backwords and still beat the computer.meh, this game isn't too great as far as RPGs go, just about average. Just really a dressed up Pokemon, and when ure playing a system featuring games like Chrono Cross, Final Fantasy IX and Breath of Fire 4, this is very inferior. Really just for the fans...This makes for a great addition to any game that supports it.  However, it makes an already awkward controller that much harder to use.The game is cool, however its an online game with just a single player tutorial. The game would be a "5", but because of the attitudes of the children playing online, it only gets a "3". Don't waste your money.Most critics insist that Half-Life is the best game ever, but I must disagree.  I will say that it has perhaps the best gameplay of any shooter, but it does have its drawbacks.
One of the best traits of half-life is that although it has much the same gameplay as any other shooter, it  seems to have done it exceptionally well.  Like most shooters you walk, run, climb, jump, crawl, and shoot, of course, but in Half-life it's so utterly engaging.  I'm not sure why, but I believe the great gameplay is a result of the intuitive nature of the puzzles and combat.  You can look around and say: "Ah ha!  That's the way."  And in most cases you are right giving you a satisfying feeling of knowing that you used your brain well.  However, as another reviewer noted, in some cases you get nailed with a "gotcha," you die, and it's time to gawk at the ol' loading screen.  Nevertheless, it's not that hard after you play the game for a while, and who doesn't want a challenge?
The weapons are average and include the standard machine gun, shotgun, and pistols along with grenades and other weapons you pick up along the way.  You can also use guns set on turrets.  All your weapons pack a punch, and you shouldn't be dissatisfied with any of them.
Enemies include monsters and "grunts."  They're decent looking, and the grunts have good AI.  Some of the "boss" monsters need to be killed with special weapons that you fire from pressing a button on a wall.  It's very satisfying to see one of the big monsters finally go down.
The sound is exceptional except for the voices of the NPCs.  I'm not sure why their voices are distorted.  It might be a bug.
Speaking of bugs, this edition of Half-life has a bug that causes you to stick to some of the lifts which can be very annoying.  Sierra should have fixed this bug by now.  I used cheat codes to get around this problem, however.
As for cheat codes, use them!  As difficult as this game can be, you can finish it using these codes, but try the game without them at first, of course.
What really drags this game down is the graphics.  Although they aren't poor, they aren't that great either.  In some of the levels the design is so plain and smooth I feel like I'm in a tin can.  This problem gets in the way of Half-Life being a truly great game.
To sum it up, I'd say Half-Life is a good, solid shooter.  It can be so absorbing, but it won't wow you either.  And such an opinion will get me in trouble with all those rabid Half-Life fans, no doubt!The initial buzz regarding this game was enormous, leading some publications to regard it as the best videogame ever. But hindsight shows that the title simply hasn't aged well.
For starters, the plot is void and simplistic - seen a million times before. The game is also overly long, and the puzzles get old fast. For a similarly themed game, "Deus Ex" outdoes HL, as it actually delivers on the promise of realism. In other words, the gameplay adjusts to you and not the other way around.
Possibly the strongest point about HL is the mod community built around it. Mods are addons which can be downloaded off the net for free. Although the quality of the singleplayer mods leaves much to be desired, the multiplayer mods are often spectacular, as is the case of Day of Defeat and Counter Strike.
My advice is to purchase it SOLELY for these mods, provided you have a good internet connection, so that you may spend many sleepless nights playing the various realism-oriented mods available.This is a fun game until you complete a park. It gets dull and boring. And one thing that makes me a little upset is that this game has one park that has a ton of rides and the other parks only have one ride already built. So thats all folksI am a huge fps fan, but i don't get why everyone likes this game so much.  I found it rather boring and dull.  The gameplay was slow, most of the game was just going around looking for buttons to push to activate different things, which got old in about the first 20 minutes of gameplay.  i admit this game is very good, but i just cant see why it has gotten so much hype.  if u want to get the coolest fps then get Clive Barker's UndyingI am what you would call call a tycoon junkie but not much into the scenerio games that come with the tycoon games. If they only had more freeform games this game would have gotten a 5 star. I suggest you wait until November when they release RCT 2.I bought Roller Coaster Tycoon because it looked interesting, and the option to build roller coasters reminded me of Disney's old game Coaster.  I played it for a while and bought the expansion pack, but it just didn't hold my attention.
When I bought it, it looked like a game for all ages, but after playing it for a while it really seemed like it was designed for kids, not adults. The whole nausea feature with guests vomiting all over really got old after a while. Also, the graphics aren't bad, but there's no variation in the guests, they all look like bald men, even the staff.
Once you've played all the scenarios, there's no more, and there isn't a "create your own" and just play option, everything has a scenario. You can keep playing them after you've won them, but you're limited to the land and the setup of that scenario.
The speed is also an issue, you either have go or stop, there's no way to slow down or speed up time, and most scenarios require a time limit, like a year or three years.  Unfortunately, if you've won the scenario at the end of year one of a three year scenario, you're stuck. You have to wait out the next two years, and there's no way to set the game at a top speed so it will end faster.  The opposite is true as well, if you're almost out of time and haven't met the conditions, you can't slow down the game to help you plan things out.
On the good side, the general graphics look nice, you can figured the game out pretty well on your own, and there's a nice variety of roller coasters. You have plenty of things to play with in the game, but there's just enough to it that I wouldn't consider it a fantastic game.Most Teekns fans carer started with Tekken 3.  And if you were an aracde aholic, it started with 2.  Had this been the easrly 90's this gamewould have got 5 stars hands down.  But over the years, this game is aged.  Tekken 1, was not an arcade blokc buster, and really came to age on ome systems.  Most fans of later tekkens will notice that this game was left for improvements.  Thee characters, while perfect stunnning and apporpiate for the early 90's, are blocky and of little detail.  although it was light years beyond Virtua Fighter 1.  And the fact that this was one ofthe first 3-dgames without chessy ringouts,and a highly detail, and cue combo system.  Most fans of later tekken will notice the cheese factor of the gameplay.  You could basically, pumble the computer, or an human oppeonent with little ease on the ground.  Which was improved in later Tekkens.  And the 8 characters, which again was appropiate for the times.  The story of this game, goes back to early Tekken.  Heatchi(sp?) was the final Boss. And was pretty hard due tothe fact you could be killed with only 3 moves.  I don't remember if Devil Kaazu(sp?) was a secret boss. But he was selectable,only through a very hard unlock process.  Anyway, I know that the later Tekkens blowthis game way, but his is a classic.  Introdcuing oyung versions, of Tekken legends.  Law, Paul, and Kaazu(sp?).  This is a personal favorite of mines.  But the reason for the low rating is the fact that the gameplay was cheesy.  Which, again was greatly imporoved upon in later tekkens.The story is epic in every way, but the 12 unit selection puts a HUGE damper on the enjoyment of this game. We need a mod or patch that does away with it. Also, they should've included the editor guide in this collection, not to mention the 64 missions. And the terran and zerg campaigns in this game (vanilla, not brood war) have been outdone by their novelizations: Liberty's Crusade by Jeff Grubb, and Queen of Blades by Aaron Rosenberg. I strongly recommend them.Just because I only gave the game 3 stars doesn't mean this is a bad game, on the contrary, I LOVE this game, the only problem is with age of empires 2 and age of mythology out, I find it hard to go back and get the original, but it definatly is a fun rts and extremly user friendly at that (not overwheelming like some rts's start out) recommened for beginner rts fans but I'd buy the second one or age of mythology before this game.  If you get this game, do yourself the favor of getting the gold edition with everything together.This game is medicore. At first it seems good, but after a while, you get more and more things happening to you. Certian comp. allies always turn on you. The graphics are okay. the sound is something that you will turn off and listen to a CD instead. The controls are ok, and all together everything is fine, it just doesnt mix at all. You will soon leave it on you stack of computer games and will play more dencent games like Starcraft. i havnt played it in at least a month, and you shouldnt waste your hard earned cash for it. the history is great and makes sense, but after a space you get sick of all the same units; 14 civilazations all only 1 tech tree. They just make certian Civs. not able to get some units. Its sad. Now if youll excuse me, i have a good game to play called Total Annihilation. . .I bought StarCraft as a Gold Box deal. The price was right but again I have learned the hard way. The nestalgia of playing an older game is tough to get back when the game runs in a much smaller resolution than my current systems. Even a High Resoltion hack doesnt help. It is best to remember the older games and move on.Well, I don't really see what the big deal is. It's one of those games that completely addicts you in the beginning, but after a while you start to get sick of watching the roller coaster you spent an hour on just go crashing to the ground.
Once you meet the first challenge, the rest are basically the same, just a little harder. All of the people I know who got the game got too tired of it before they could finish it.
Even though I don't like it now, there was a short period when I stayed up past 2AM playing it. I guess it's an average game, at first you are totally into it, but shortly after you loose interest. I recommend this game to gamers who don't really have anything to do, and are just looking for a cute game to waste their time playing. Rollercoaster Tycoon probably won't be as popular with some of the older kids, a little too young. Also, it's a little too tedious for REALLY little kids. I give it 3 stars.To put it bluntly, Breath of Fire III is intolerably dull. The battle engine has few innovations, the graphics are standard 2D cutesy sprites on  a rather featureless 3D background, and the plot is riddled with  problems.
Sure, in combat you can turn into eleven different kinds of  dragons, but so what!  At no point in the game are you actually required to  do so. In fact, you can go through the game with no need of a sinle  transformation. Experimenting with different dragon genes (necessary to  discover the above-mentioned dragon types) is tedious and wastes your MP.  In fact, transforming into a dragon wastes so much of your magic, that it  sort of invalidates any strategy.
The random battles are copious,  considering the fact that for most of the game you fight with no purpose in  mind. Thankfully, most enemies have a trick or two up their sleeve that you  can learn and perform yourself (most of the ones you can learn are  useless). Combat in this game just isn't fun, probably because it has  nothing to do with the plot.
The plot is surprisingly bare and devoid of  livelihood. Just as an example, before you meet the final boss at the end  of the game, you will have no idea that she is there. Neither will you know  for sure why exactly you are fighting her.
The plot has a lot of  interesting parts that are left unexplained. Some of the human interactions  seem realistic, but all of the realism is drained away by the fifth time  you are beaten up and kidnapped by the same pair of bandits.
The  soundtrack features several off-beat tunes, but otherwise is bleak. You'll  spend most of your game-time listening to no more than five tunes.
There  are also a few small things that are sure to irritate. Specific characters  are necessary to perform certain tasks (only the walking onion character  can break the glass seal on an emergency door), but switching characters in  your party is a long and tedious task. Sometimes it takes several seconds  to quit certain conversations, and sometimes there is lag between character  actions in combat.
I've never played the other installments in the Breath  of Fire series, so I cannot be sure of their quality. However, if they are  on the same level as this tepid piece of software, they desperately lack  appeal.This game is average. It is a pretty fun sim. I played it for about a month straight. You get to make your dream theme park. One problem i didn't really like is there isn't enough room in the parks. It gets pretty boring when there isn't enough room to build a really cool roller coaster you want to build. But all and all this game is fun.After passing Gabriel Knight 1 and 2 long before this game came out I was very "into" the gk series, then the third installment came. I was expecting it to be like the first one, cartoonish and not very realistic, I was right. In my opinion, gabriel knight 2 is the best of the series only because the personalities of the characters stand out the most in the gabriel knight series. Gabriel knight 2 uses real actors whom gave a great performance, the use of 3d and going back to Tim Curry in GK3 was going down a step. Gk3 is basically Gk1 in polygonal format with a less interesting backset.
I was very dissapointed in the story of this game, in the end after I confirmed the whole story, i said "nice try". Nice try as in, 'nice try, but the story just doesn't work out'. One thing that makes the GK series good, is gabriel himself. He was protrayed well in this game, because they used Tim Curry as the voice, as they did in GK1. Another character you play in the game is Grace, very frusterating when it comes turn to play her, the game totally changes from fun and comical to extremely boring. In all fairness though, playing Grace is boring in all 3 games.
So to cut things short the only incentive to play thie game is for the 3d graphics, they are indeed nice eye candy. I recommend playing "The Longest Journey", or if you want a taste of the GK series, Gabriel Knight 2 is the way to go.I'm surprised that with so many constructive and positive comments, that Sierra hasn't commissioned another Gabriel Knight game. This is the only one I've played, so I can't compare this game to the first two in the series.
I think the decision to use the Quake 2 game engine was, in hindsight, a poor one. The Quake 2 engine always uses excessive browns in its color palette. This is particularly evident in the outdoor scenes - particularly in areas like Montreaux's Mansion. The mountains look way too blockly and polygonal to be real.
Another odd 'glitch' was that the town was totally deserted, and even with the 3D-engine it still seemed a bit...small. We didn't see any people walking in the streets, even in the daytime. The only inhabitants either stayed at the hotel or lived in the church. This is a totally unrealistic approach that marred the game.
But at the time the game was made, what other 3D-engine was available? ....conclusion, I think Gabriel Knight 3 was a game that could've been great. In the end, the two parts that let it down were the sad ending, and the game engine that was used. I hope Ms. Jensen writes a GK4...although I very much doubt it.I enjoy the Gabriel Knight series and still play the other two games, even if they're a little outdated.  The storyline is excellent, and you really get to know the characters.  Unfortunately, that's not the case in the third installment of the series.  Some of the characters are as  "wooden" as Queen Amalia from the "Stars Wars: The Phantom  Menace" movie.  You hardly get to know them at all.  Plus, the  storyline is a bit weaker than the other GK series.  I spent a lot of time  scratching my head trying to make sense of what happened a minute ago.  When I finished the game, I was STILL stratching my head, but this time  because of the ending!  In addition to that, the graphics are totally  unlike that which you would see in a game like this.  I also like the  King's Quest series, but since they "polygonified" the eight one,  my interest has been waning.  "Sierra games," as I call any game  where you walk around and have multiple icons that you click on different  things to get responses (text or oral), SHOULD NOT have graphics like this.  I would recommend this game to fans of the series (obviously), but for  everyone else, wait for the price to drop before you make the purchase, and  while you're waiting, play the first two GKs.  I highly recommend those!It look stunning - the artwork is obviously inspired by Chris Foss and Peter Elson (sci-fi artists of the old 'Great Space Battles' books from the  late-70's), and it's gorgeous, even more so than 'Conflict: Freespace'. Not  only is it technically impressive, it has style, too - space itself is a  colourful nebula, and the vehicle designs and paintwork give the impression  that you have a gigantic set of cool toys at your disposal. Surprisingly,  the 'Battlestar: Galactica'-esque story around which the game hangs is a  cut above the average - whilst not exactly 'War and Peace' it's still much  better you might expect.
The flow of play is less interesting, though.  With no terrain as such, it's not so much a tactical game as a strategic  one - the side that can field the most amount of units wins. As one of the  other reviews mentions, a gigantic asteroid field would have helped things  enormously. Furthermore, as in 'Urban Assault', the AI requires that you  manage every significant unit at the same time, something which gets on  your nerves quite quickly. And it gets very, very hard later on -  especially as your status is carried from mission to mission. Often you  realise that you're going to have to start again from scratch in order to  complete later missions, and having to spend ages after you have 'won'  mining for resources in order to build up your forces is very dull.
Do  you want this? It's more or less one of a kind, and it's utterly stylish,  although in the long run both 'Starcraft' and the older 'Total  Annihilation' are more fun to play.I must say that I enjoyed Homeworld... for a while.  I did not, in all honesty, finish the game because I felt it degenerated into a pure slugfest, no tactics or strategy involved (for the most part).  The short  summary is that Homeworld is a fairly typical harvest resources, build  forces, kill the enemy sort of game.  A couple frills with the attempted 3D  interface and the salvage capabilities, but nothing to write home about.  If you want real-time strategy, there are better choices out  there.
First, though the game is, in theory, 3D, very little is actually  done in 3D, and the interface for trying to do so is difficult to manage.  Almost the entire game takes place in effectively one plane (for the core  game, there are a couple of exceptions).  So, while the 3D idea is neat,  very little is done to develop and exploit it. Second, very little strategy  seems to be involved in the game.  The interface is a little too clunky and  micro-manage centric (to use any units with intelligence, YOU must be in  direct control of them) to allow for grand tactics and strategies, and  there is a sad emphasis on the captial ships.  To a large degree, you can  do entirely without fighter class ships (once you reach a certain tech  level). Obviously, game designers have yet to notice that there are often  very good reasons for having smaller stuff on the scene.  The formations  attempt to bring some semblance of order to the game, but those same  formations rapidly disappear in actual combat, making them fairly  pointless. Third, unit intelligence is miserable.  This is not a problem  liited to Homeworld, but seems to be endemic to the strategy genre.  Fight  to the death, you cannot establish a target priority intelligence. you  cannot setup a series of orders (shoot your designated target unless  something juicier or more deadly appears, run to a certain staging area if  you are damaged, guard this ship, but do not leave it's immediate vicinity,  etc.).
On the plus side, the game is pretty smooth.  The views are great,  and the perspective control is very useful (though a camera angle change  could be nice, ie, view out from a unit's perspective, rather than always  looking at a particular unit or view of any area, rather than a unit).  The  repair/refuel and docking capability is cool, as is the ability to jump  around the map (mp only though). Sadly, I don't think the game lived up to  its hype.Outlaws was released in 1996, and was one of the last 1st-person shooters to retain a sprite-based game engine over a true 3D polygonal one. It's also one of the few western-based shooting games on the market.

You're Marshall James Anderson, a former lawman who takes up the badge again when a railroad baron's goons kill your wife and kidnap your daughter. You'll fight through nine stages, including ghost towns, mines, cliff dwellings, and saw mills on your quest for revenge. Bonus missions send you on bounty-hunting quests for those thugs you never saw during the main game. Lucasarts really nailed the spaghetti western atmosphere and trappings with lots of animated cutscenes and excellent voice work. You can also pop the game CDs into your CD player and hear the highly memorable full-length soundtrack.

But there are problems with Outlaws' gameplay. The environments are still pretty decent, but the enemy sprites were average by 1996 standards, and look pretty bad today. Some of the levels can be disorienting and confusing, and the missions fall into key hunts that aren't much better than the original DOOM. There's really no sense of direction except to run around and open passages until you meet the boss. Bosses aren't as distinctive as in other games, and you might not know you've killed one until the game jumps to a cutscene. To its credit, Outlaws included elements that later became staples of the shooter genre, including having to manually reload (bullet by bullet!), a sniper rifle, and a stamina meter where your character becomes slower and out of breath the longer you run.

I can't say there's much reason to buy this title today if you've been raised on shooters like Half-Life and Halo, but if you're a collector of Lucasarts games and want to experience the high-quality cutscenes and soundtrack, Outlaws is a must-have.Combat Flight Simulator is fun but not very realistic and it has really bad grafics. Somethimes when your playing the game a enemy shoots your plane and then theres bullet holes in the cockpit window and you survive. If that really happened the pilot would be dead. Also the planes don't try to move away from you when you shooting them so it is really easy to shoot down planes. I shot down 72 planes once. Combat Flight Simulator is not alot of money to buy so it kind of worth getting if you like WW2 combat flying game. Combat Flight Simulator 2 and 3 are a lot more fun and realistic.This is the original CFS.  Though CFS3 is out by now, those owning older computers, even those that can run CFS2, should consider CFS1 as an alternative.  CFS1 is set in Europe - allowing you to fly fighter missions using the tried and true Microsoft Flight Simulator engine (formerly the BAO flight sim engine).  Surprisingly, this is a pretty effective sim for one that many could easily boil down to "Flight simulator with guns".  Unfortunately, despite the challenges of adapting skills amassed flying combat flight sims with less realistic flight modeling, CFS1 never really becomes more than "Flight simulator with guns".
In CFS1, you can fly on-line, single missions, or campaigns.  Using the MSFS engine, it is as adaptable as any edition of "Microsoft Flight Simulator" in terms of add-on aircraft, scenery or missions.  (Be aware, that while there's no shortage of modern military aircraft available for sale or for download, the inherenent design of this game is towards pre-modern aircraft.  Neither the sophisticated systems nor guided weapons are available).  There are actually 2 campaigns - the Battle of Britain (summer of 1940) in which you intercept (or escort) waves of the Luftwaffe's medium level bombers or dive bombers against industrial and defense targets in England or Channel shipping and the daylight bombing campaign against Europe starting around 1943.  CFS1 is entirely a fighter-driven game - barring user customization, you can't fly big bombers.  On the flip side, fighters can be armed with rockets or bombs.  While you can fly for the Luftwaffe in either campaign, your choice on the allied side is limited.  I can understand being stuck with the RAF for the Battle of Britain (the attack on Pearl, and America's entry into the war was still over a year away), but didn't the RAF fly at all in 1943-45?  The campaigns are short and scripted: you fly the same mission until you get it right.  To be honest, the mission goals aren't demanding (I'm more likely to get snagged by crashing into a wingman or getting too close to an enemy), and the repetitive aspect of pre-scripted missions would be little improved by a dynamic campaign, since most missions would be the same anyway (how much of a Mustang pilot's time wasn't spent escorting waves of B-17's?).  One tip for escorting the bombers - you may have caught Edmund O'Brien as a P-47 driver in "Fighter Squadron" (1948) who chafes under rules that require his pilots to stick with the bombers and not chase enemy planes to the deck.  Just remember, the time you've spent after you break formation to chase an Me-109 away, will easily be exceeded by how long it will take you to rejoin, especially if you went for the deck and must now claw back up to your formation's flight level.  This is especially critical since other Me-109s will exploit your absence to cut into your formations.  Stick with the bombers!
I can't say how realistic flight modeling was - I'd expected worse remembering how pitiful I was on the WWI mission included on the original BAO Flight Sim (c. 1982).  Visually, the planes are lovely, though this is an old game, and it won't bowl you over.  Damage modeling is suspect - CFS1 is stuck in an era of sims in which your plane will have a fixed response to damage; this is despite a more effective damage model in "Secret Weapons of the Luftwaffe" (1990) in which a given hit from an enemy will lead to progressive deterioration in your plane's condition.  Ground targets and ships are completely implausible - one hit from your rockets and destroyers, u-boats and merchantmen (which remain parked like sitting ducks) disappear in fireballs ala "Battlestar Galactica", which hints that this project was rushed to shelves.  (The other hint is the appearance of Me-262 jets - they only appear in one mission, and as ground targets.  How did that happen?)
So, what's really wrong?  A weak mission generator and the same aircraft we've seen in over ten years in flight sims.  MS probably guessed that it wasn't worth their time to do more than add guns and damage models to the FS engine - people would just download the missions, flight panels, scenery or aircraft files they wanted anyway.  Sure the game has the big planes of that theater of the war - but then did CFS1 have to wartime Europe?  With its flight engine, CFS1 would have been the perfect vehicle for a Korean war sim - an idea that MS inexplicably ignored for this and the next 2 additions.  WWII Europe simply has been simmed to death.  Terrain is incredibly flat and, especially down low, doesn't even look like terrain.  It's almost at the point where, unless you go on the `net for add-on files, there really isn't anything to simulate here.  In short, MS was hot to create a military flight sim that would adapt to any user's preference, they forgot to give it features that people would prefer to keep.  I couldn't get decent performance on my P200mmx/Voodoo2 PC.  Obviously, hardware wasn't an issue when I moved up to a P4 (no Windows XP compatibility issues here).
On a final note, CFS1's disappointments are not completely covered by CFS2.  I own both games since I wanted a Pacific war sim.  Though CFS2 is obviously an improvement, CFS1 holds up pretty well - CFS1 owners can download or buy add-on files to capture the Pacific experience.  In short, if you've got CFS1, don't feel like you've got to spend $$ for CFS2 or to upgrade your machine.I got this version instead of the PS3 version, which turned out to be a mistake. Console versions of games look 95 percent as good as their PC versions, but you do not have to deal with driver issues and the numerous things that can go wrong with windows. First off the installation takes about 30 minutes, which is ridiculous. I have never had a game take this long to load, Shift 2 took about 20 minutes which seemed too long also. Next many of the latest games for PC are forcing you to have an internet connection in order to install the game, regardless of whether you want to play only offline single player games. Shift 2 unleashed is also like this, so be forewarned. Internet requirements are not prominently displayed on the boxes. The game pushes you, but does not require you to, sign up for a Games For Windows Live account, which is required to get the game patches and updates. More time wasted signing up for that. Finally after about one hour the game was up and running , but the menu screen text had red blocky borders, and the sun in the game screens was ugly pink red, with red reflections on the car and everywhere. So more time spent googling to find a solution to this. I had to download a hot-fix driver update for my AMD videocard driver, which solved that red text and sun problem. Finally after nearly 2 hours I was able to play the game, which is perhaps the prettiest racing game I have ever played. Magnificent graphics, and fun excellent gameplay. Good forcefeedback effects with a steering wheel, and excellent sense of speed and immersion, makes this a top notch sim racer with just a hint of arcade feeling to it.
I was really, finally enjoying the game , when suddenly about 30 minutes in to a race the game suddenly crashed. No error message or anything, it just hung up and crashed to desktop, under windows 7. I later tried it with Windows XP on the same machine, and it crashed less frequently, usually only when exiting the game, but random crashes really kill the fun of a racing game, since it might not crash during an entire 20 lap race or it might crash on the 2nd lap.
It is a great game when it works, and if you are lucky enough to have a machine that it runs stably on then by all means get this game. But hang on to your receipt just in case.
I am tired of fiddling with my computer trying to find a totally reliable setup for this game, so I think I am going to buy a copy for my PS3, which has never crashed, in over 3 years of game playing. I have been buying the top notch PC versions of videogames and spent thousands of dollars over the years on faster videocards and cpu's , but I have finally grown tired of fiddling with incompatibilities of hardware and software, and now game publishers demanding that you have an internet connection as well as providing a long serial number, utilizing gigabytes of harddrive space, 30 minute or longer installation times ( it takes less time to install Windows 7 ) , and requiring you to sign up for their online service and game store, and still you have to put that stupid little DVD in your computer everytime you want to play a simple game to relax. I am pretty much done with PC gaming, since the consoles are so much less hassle, and they have " good enough " graphics that the diminishing returns of costly higher resolution better antialiased higher framerate graphics is not worth it. When the PS4 and Xbox 720 come out, I think the law of diminishing returns will be even more evident.Naturally others will have a different experience of this game depending upon their proficiency at aircraft sims and the game controllers used by their system. This is merely my experience with this particular game. The concept is great, particularly for WWII buffs like myself. Graphically the game is superb, no complaints there. I do however have major trouble with the handling capabilities of all the aircraft used, save for the Spitfire Mark IX. This is the only aircraft which seems to be able to keep its nose level long enough for me to get is decent shots at another aircraft. Most of the other planes fly like stuffed pigs and no matter how often I hit the "Bank/Yaw Center" key the moment I make a slight correction the nose buffets wildly. Maybe I am not doing something right but reading the manual and using the tutorial does not give any clues at to what I can do to alleviate this game spoiling effect. So basically I am limited to flying the Spit which doesn't bother me too much as I prefer the RAF. Unfortunately as most seem to feel the Combat Campaigns and Missions are lacklustre, particularly for the RAF. Some are just plain goofy. Too many missions involve attacking ground targets, which are difficult and dangerous to hit (slamming into the turf or surf is a constant hazzard). I just get the feeling that the game has been overprogrammed to include spoilers that reduce the handling capabilities of the aircraft and if I have this trouble playing at the easiest/slowest level then obviously the designers don't know the meaning of the word ROOKIE. Everyone has to start somewhere I just don't think this game offers the novice the support necessary to acquire the gaming skills needed to operate it. I have tried the downloads for new missions and aircraft but these are just sitting on my hard drive like Junkers on the tarmac. There is no use in offering them if they don't load themselves. If these files need to be modified to make them run then there is no use in offering them to any but the advanced computer buff. I (and no doubt most computer users) wouldn't know how to configure these files even if Microsoft was kind enough to walk me through it. But here's the beef, why didn't they include these features before releasing the game? Microsoft has left it up to the gaming community to modify their software for them. I give them poor marks in the customer service department. So for me the game is more the Spitfire Flight Simulator which doesn't make me unhappy but clips my wings a little.First of all the game graphics are sharp and fast. The flight physics are on the ball.  When you are looking around in your cockpit this where the game shines.
Shooting a plane is very rewarding with debre falling off(and yes you can in fact shoot wings off planes) and smoke.
Unloading on a plane and then pausing to move the camera all around is worth way more then 5 stars.
Unfortunately the campaign brings it down for imersive play and lasting interest.
This quote from reviewer Filmfanman sums it up perfectly:
  "The campaign modes are the least interseting aspect of the game and leave a lot to be desired. I want a sense of "being there" from my sims, outside of combat. I want detailed debriefings after a mission. I want to feel a sense of camaraderie with my fellow virtual pilots. I want to know who made it back and who didn't. I want to see how many kills my squad mates got so I have a benchmark with which to compete. I don't care if the missions are scripted or dynamic so long as they have that feel that really immerses you in a campaign. The campaigns here fall flat"
But the game is good for a few hours here and there.  And I would encourage you to fly the ones that are not terribly long to get the most out of the simulation aspect.  Otherwise like what someone else said.  It will get boring quick.
 All in all a very solid game where the campaigns brings it down 2 stars.  Sad.I got this game in Dec 1997 and for months me and my best friend did nothing but play it. At the time it seemed so cool and interesting. Today, it seems dated and dull. Weird isn't it? I have AOE2 and it is much better but that too already seems old hat. Even with all the expansion packs available for this game it will never come close to the complexity of the sequel or Age of Mythology. Buy it if you can find it dead cheap tho.As an experience, Microsoft's 'Combat Flight Simulator' is rather akin to watching your parents dance - it's an attempt to inject some fun into the  staid 'Flight Simulator' series, and whilst it retains all the virtues of  the longest-running flight sim series ever, it doesn't totally work, being  not much fun to play as a game. The presentation is solid, and extremely  unspectacular - the graphics are very rough, and the sound is nothing to  write home about, although the trails of debris that fall from the back of  enemy aircraft is attractive. You can choose to fly a limited set of single  missions (some of which seem oddly hard, simply because you don't have  enough ammunition to destroy your assigned targets), or a 'campaign', but  disappointingly the 'campaign' is just a set of single missions, one after  the other, generating no atmosphere at all. It isn't a patch on the  campaign mode in Microprose's 'European Air War', or the modern 'Falcon 4',  in which the course of a war is modelled and remembered from mission to  mission. The end result is that the game quickly becomes quite monotonous,  and with no real incentive for you to do well from mission to mission the  thought of taking off for another round of bomber interception palls.  Special mention must be made of the manual, which, 'DiD'-style, has lots  and lots of information, but doesn't actually tell you much about flying,  fighting, and most importantly dropping bombs.
That said, all of Europe  is modelled, and if you have the time you can try flying from London to  Paris by landmarks and compass, if you so desire. And a thriving community  of 'Flight Sim' buffs will ensure that the CD you get in the box is only  the start of an ongoing affair.Breath Of Fire 3 is a traditional RPG with a combination of 3D and 2D graphics.  The characters are what one would expect from a BOF game. The battle layout is well done for the most part, even though the loading time for some commands is just horrible.  The Masters system is a cool idea, as you can shape your characters into any class you want by apprenticing them to the right master.  The feature that keeps BOF 3 from reaching classic status is the story.  It starts out interesting, but about halfway through the game it seems to lose it's purpose.  Another annoying aspect is the desert area near the end of the game. The directions they give you are vague and confusing.  Worst of all however, is after all the long hours you put into playing the game, the ending is short and stale. If you are a seasoned RPG fan and have played through all of the other RPGs for Playstation, BOF 3 will keep you busy until the next big hit arrives.  If you hate puzzles and long loading times however, Breath Of Fire 3 may not be your game.Many people praise Starcraft for being a great RTS, but I have found my money spent better elsewhere. Starcraft begins as a whole lotta fun, very challenging, but the cons outweigh the pros in this botched game.
Let's start with the good. The internet play is excellent, USE MAP SETTINGS offers many different types of games to play and make. The campaign missions are challenging and fun as well. The units are fun to ... and to employ in your army.
Ok, now the bad. The units are horribly unbalanced. The three different races play so different from each other you actually have to get used to each of them. The unit balance is something that really disgusts me as well. Zealots simply rule over marines, even though in a sense they are supposed to be equals for the two races. The next concern is AI. The AI is simply terrible. I was appalled at how horrible the computer played. I wonder how long Blizzard worked on the AI. The coding must have simply been "BUILD MINER, MINE, ATTACK". The graphics are outdated by this day, but that is not so problematic that anyone should care about it in their decision to buy the game. The map editor could have been improved, but instead people have to download the map editor hacks to make a good map. The voice acting is good, nothing to be ashamed of. The cinematics were excellently done, that is true. But the cinematics don't come in abundance, once you're done with the campaigns, that's it. GOODBYE.
The USE MAP SETTINGS feature is one thing that saves this game from the abyss. It's fun to make custom scenarios that are actually able to be played for a long time, rather than melee games which are simply "... ..."
Well, if you really want a good RTS I do not suggest Starcraft. However, if you like strictly military based RTS's that have good sound effects and a nice system of play, this is your game.If I had a choice between SC 2000 or SC 3000 I'd have to say I'd choose 2000 though its graphics are not as good it's a lot more fun and easier to start.  I'll have to admit when I first began playing I was shamelessly addicted.  But after two days of playing I had my map completely filled and no more room to build.  The game is fun for a short while but gets old real fast.  I still highly reccommend this game for a boring tuesday afternoon.i thought this game could have been better from maxis sim city 3000 is  much better so go check it out instead of sim city 2000One of the most entertaining flight "sims" I have ever played. This game has given me hours and hours of enjoyment -- especially online. Unfortunately, there are some perplexing and conflicting elements involved here. Although the game has a "realistic" setting, there are no stalls and/or spins during flight. The program allows a virtual "Red Baron" to do things with a plane that are simply against the laws of physics. Also, for all the detail the programmer(s) put into this game in many areas, the guys (and gals) -- for some reason -- dropped the ball in certain places. There is no weapons load-out screen for the planes, and there seems to be a never ending supply of crude rockets and bombs -- whether you want them or not (the bomb/rocket load doesn't seem to affect the performance of the planes). In "real life" these weapons are loaded as needed per each mission and then expended. Most importantly, the game only shows its true graphical splendor in the 3dfx Glide mode. My Geforce 3 card only allows software rendering (the ground looks like a Purina checkerboard). In summary, be careful -- this one is addicting as hell. (Also note that there is a good online community out there who are ready and willing to help new "pilots").Watch out with this one.  If you have a newer graphics card like a Geforce2 then you will not be able to get the 3D graphics.  This game does not support 3d acceleration with newer cards. I was really upset when I learned I would have to buy an older Voodoo card just to get better graphics on this game.  A great game other than that, but if you want the highest graphics, make sure you also have an Voodoo compatible video card.Being a fan of the original two RB games, I ordered this game when I got a new PC with Windows ME.  Only problem is, I get "jitter" everytime I move the joystick up or down.  I tried a new joystick, but it didn't fix the problem. Inquiries to Sierra went unanswered.  The game is cool when I fly in a straight line, but having to go up or down gives me motion sickness. Anyone else have this problem?First I'll explain to you what my superpad looks like, as it's different then the one pictured. It looks very similar to the official Nintendo brand controller, the only difference being that mine has colored face buttons(red,blue,green and yellow), says "superpad controller" at the top and the start and select buttons are a little higher. There is also 2 big bulky circles on the back underneath the directional pad and the face buttons, and it says "interact" below the start and select buttons. There are no signs of this controller being cheaply made at all, and it seems to be about identical in quality to the official Nintendo brand inside and out. However, read on...

Now, for all the 6 or 7 years I've had this controller I never had a problem, but now it's got some major issues! You may be thinking "Jeez, 6 or 7 years with no problem is pretty good!" but considering that the official controllers last forever, that's really not that great. I suppose it makes it far superior to many other 3rd party controllers out there, but it's still not worth it if you can find an official one. Anyway, my controller now has buttons getting set off without them even being pressed! It seems to depend on the game which buttons get set off without being pressed, but needless to say my superpad is pretty much worthless now.

Overall, you could probably do much worse, but the Nintendo brand is proven to last, and if you can find one of those that's definitely the way to go. I'm sure that everyone is going to have a different experience with their superpad - you could end up with one that lasts longer, not as long or one that has problems from the start. This is just my experience with a single superpad controller after all, but official seems to always be the least risky.I wrote this review to educate all of the hardcore gamers out there...especially those who love long RPGs.  Don't get me wrong, the Playstation has a lot of great games, and the the controllers are quite durable and well designed.  The problem with the Playstation lies within it's hardware.  If you play games a lot (especially role playing games), be ready to invest in a new Playstation about every 7-8 months.  I use my Playstation about 1 hour a day...sometimes more when playing through a role playing game, and I've had to go through 3 Playstations in the past couple of years.  There are several factors that contribute to the breaking down of the Playstation.  Overheating, the track wearing out, and the CD chuck under the lid that falls apart after a while.  The overheating problem can be aleviated by investing in a cooling fan, but there is not much else you can do for the other problems. Typical signs of overuse include skipping, longer load times, and freezing. Don't bother turning the system on it's side or upside down, doing so will only further ruin the Playstation and your disc and is probably also a fire hazard. My only advice is keep your Playstation out of hot places, away from lots of electronic equipment, do not put it on top of a VCR, and always unplug it after use (the AC adapter device is internal, therefore causing the system to heat up even when not in use if you do not unplug it). Hopefully Sony will learn from this and the Playstation 2 will be a lot more durable.when it arrived it worked great... the buttons didn't last very long though I could assume that was cause my 7yr old son was a little over zealous about his gameplay.I bought two a few weeks ago and I almost need to buy two more already. Definitely not made for aggressive gamers!I remember getting this game a while back when I was younger.  The game was difficult to master, which I attributed to my young age, but I loved to play it because of the nice atmosphere it gave; beautiful, fantasy surrounding, pleasant music, pretty landscape (the 3D terrain had an enhancing effect over other strategy RPGs I had played on the PC before).  Overall, I enjoyed the game a lot.

Moving back to the present day, I had lost my copy and was itching to play it again, having all but forgotten what the game was like.  My girlfriend and I had gotten hooked on Age of Wonders, and I wanted to investigate similar games for her.

I ordered LoM SE on Amazon not too long after.  After installing and playing the game for a bit, I was a little dissapointed.  I was still the game that I remember, but it seemed deficient in ways I hadn't noticed before.

For example, the graphics did not age well.  I can go back and play much older games from my childhood such as Quest for Glory I & II (SCI engine) and still marvel at how beautiful the graphics are despite only 16 available colors and a screen resolution of 320x240.  This is double edged, because while I feel that LoM has pretty graphics, they still seem to work out poorly in the long run.

Secondly, I still find the gameplay to be difficult.  I'm not a kid anymore, and I have since mastered other fantasy RPGs, but the system in LoM seems a bit awkward and difficult to master.  I couldn't play it for more than a half hour.

Overall, I think it's a good game.  Even though it's not my cup of tea anymore, I can see that lots of other people really love it, so if you like the genre then I give it a good recommendation.  The price tag is very cheap, and it's well worth a grab.Breaks easily, but buttons work fine.  Treat it like fine china.  I'd prefer a regular SNES controller.  I'll let you decide.  And at least it's not as bad as some other cheap version like the one's where you press right and keep ducking.This game is very much worth buying at its listed price.  This game has so much potential, but is somewat awkward and buggy in its interface.  Let me give you some examples:
1. Real time combat:  As mentioned in the editorial review, this is extremely problematic and awkward.  Because it is based on a 3/4 view, you lose sight of some of your units, and often it seems they do not immediately respond to your commands.  Units end up in a scrum at the center of the screen, and don't readily disengage or advance.  This is dissapointing considering "Lords of the Realm" which was not perfect either, had a much cleaner interface, and it is an older game.  Lords of Magic would have been a much better game if the battle view was adjustable, and the speed of combat as well.  If the units were more "Diablo" sized, or somewhere in between, it would have been a vast improvment. Also in ths same area, when entering dungeons and the like, your party can randomly turn up in strange places on the battle scape map, e.g. your sorceress is on the other side of the map all by herself, next to a group of trolls, when all her protection is on the other side separated by a physical barrier like water.  This can mean certain death for a character you have spent much time developing, and makes no sense.  If your party goes in as a unit they should appear that way on the battlescape.  This is just poor design.
2. Hero Status bars:  On the "overland" view, your heros have a pop up status card, showing their items, level, etc.  These are so sparse that once you gain multiple magical items you have to create new heros just to have someone to off-load the items to in order to take an inventory of your items.  When you have many parties on the board, this is maddening!
3.  Overland spells:  There is no feedback on overland spells (spells you cast while in the "world view").  You have no way of telling whether they worked, or what the affect was.  ALso there are some spells that seem to not work at all, like transporting a magical item via magical means.
4. Fortesses:  These are far to weak, and are awkward to defend.  If any of you have played Lords of the Realm you know that castles are easily defended. Not in this game.  There is no ability for your archers/javeliners to man the walls of the castle.  You can direct them to that area, but often they just stand there or run around.  They also gain no advantage from the height of the walls or the cover provided thereby.  You just end up with a scrum at the front gate with everyone bunched together like Mattel vibrating football.
This game is worth playing just to be able to use Balkoth after you complete it.  The spells that "Death" can cast are really cool.  Overall, I recommend this game at it's current listed price.  It has some beautiful graffics, interesting story, and combines party based roll playing with RTS and turn based strategy.  With some conceptual changes, this could be the greatest game ever.Not great but it does the job just fine, And for the price it makes no sense to complain about an item that works.It works with my SNES and that's about it, the plastic is cheap, the buttons feel weird, it's heavier than an original and it's a darker color than a Original SNES controller. However it's cheap and functional so I can't really complain too much.This is a pretty good game. I just couldn't get into get like some I do. Game play is simple and the plot runs along well. I'm a bit old fashioned and like a little simpler game layout, but the game will pull you in.This exspantion pack increase the defensive and offensive cappablilities of alot of old favorites and adds some new characters to the scene.  This is a must for any true hard core Starcraft lovin zerg smashin freak.I bought this because i enjoy fighting games. But the controls are so hard. If it used analog control it would be a lot easier. But overall its an o.k game!I have enjoyed the Kings Quest series very much, but I didn't get started until Kings 5. I got this set, but the gameplay and graphics, though a head of their time in their day, was real tough to play in this current day and age. While these all have great stories, graphically and challenging wise, Kings Quest 6 & 7 are the only 2 that are really playable now. Kings 7 is graphically very good and the story and gameplay is pretty cool. The only thing missing from this set is The Mask Of Eternity which is actually Kings Quest 8. Graphically, it's a stellar upgrade over these and the gameplay is faster paced with alot less puzzles to solve. Roberta Williams was definitley ahead of her time and I hope she continues to create these Kings Quest games(go to gamespot.com and look for an article on Roberta Williams. It was an excellent story).PROS:

1. difficulty mode select

2. ability to turn vibrations and subtitles on or off

3. Colorful, eyecatching visuals

CONS:

1. No tutorial

2. No save option if played on PSII

3. No Pause option (pushing select will make you start from the beginning or quit)

4. No level simple enough for younger children - notes can be quick and complex

5. Oftentimes bad music with vocalists that are too goofy or difficult to understand

I picked this up, hearing it followed along the PaRappa games. Familiar with the others, I I conquered this one - only having to do 2-3 songs twice.

At first, the songs are clear and catchy, in my opinion. But the last half really disappointed me - the lyrics became difficult to understand, and the voices were either too goofy or grainy to rely on them for help with the beat. Additionally, the songs themselves were musically displeasing and I found myself wanting to hurry up and get through a song just so it would be over.

In conclusion, I think it's a fun game for people who like the music-based style, but not anything special. Buy it used and cheap if you wanna play it - like I did.

BETTER MUSIC-BASED GAMES: See Amplitude and Taiko Drum Master.It's a so-so game.  The graphics are so-so and the gameplay is pretty bad.  But the price is great.  But for 15 bucks it's worth it.I didn't play this game that much, something about it hasn't really caught my attention yet, but from what I played it as pretty fun.Vigialnte 8 would have been a fun game if it weren't for two things: Crazy Taxi and, more importantly, Grand Theft Auto. Basically you have 18 vehicles that run around trying to destroy each other--everything from a motorcycle (with sidecar) to a bus to a moon vehicle to a dump truck (and I found the dump truck to be the best). It really is a fun game, but after playing Crazy Taxi and Grand Theft Auto, it doesn't stack up. The control isn't as great nor is there any story to it. It gets boring rather quickly, but only because I've played similar games that are a lot more fun. I wouldn't go out and buy it, but if you don't have any of the better games, then I'd say keep it. At least until you upgrade you system.Tony Hawks Pro Skater is a fun game.
  PROS:
  1)really fun
  2)levels are huge
  3)2 player mode good
  4)alot of tricks and specials
  CONS:
  1)graphics are choppy
  2)characters are jaggy
  3)controls get difficult in small areas
  4)gameplay gets a little repedative
So if you have a playstation and are looking for a good skating game don't go for Tony Hawks Pro Skater (go for the new ones). It was good for its time but is now old and out dated.Back when this game first came out, it was a groundbreaking effort for extreme sports video-games, most of which were, (and for the most part, still are) mediocre at best.  The tricking system was simple, and easy to learn.  The level design was the best in the genre, and the level objectives were fun.
  But that was three years ago.  Today, even for the incredibly cheap asking price I just can't recommend purchasing the original game in this series, beacuse for just a few dollars more you could do a whole lot better with any of the sequels in the series.  Provided, the latest two sequels (3 and 4) were primarily designed for next-generation consoles, but they did come out on PLaystation 1, Game Boy Advance, and dare I say, Game Boy Color, so you should be able to find the game of your choice on the platform of your choice.This game is very fun, while it lasts anyway. The graphics are great, the music is fantastic, the moves are cool, and the levels are cool too. But even though it can be a little challenging, the truth is, the game is just too short. The game is not enough of a challenge, there are only 30 tapes in 6 levels with three competitions, and the game takes no time to blaze through. Even though it is harder to combo, the game often gives you more points than it should. If you're just going after three gold medals, a person could beat this game with two different characters in a day. If you're going for all the tapes, it depends on the person. Maybe a day, maybe two. There isn't much depth to a lot of the gameplay, and it gets old really quick. The length of the game and how easy it is cut two stars off the game's rating. The game had more potential than the hype and what it really was, but for now, and even in the second, it's not much...This is one of the games I still play on Dreamcast. In an effort to keep the fewest amount of equipment around my tv, I decided to get the playstation version of this game. I must say that I was disappointed in the graphics and how grainy it is. You can't see to far in the distance. I thought it was going to be the same. Oh well. If you've never played this game before, it's still the same fun. I can give it that. I don't want to draw any comparisons to Twisted Metal. I like both. For the price, it's worth a shot but if you still play Dreamcast, get that version instead.When I played Baldur's Gate, it was a wonderfully long experience of exploration and balanced encounters. If you ran into an over-powering encounter, you knew your party had ventured into the wrong place at the wrong time. This expansion is a bucket of cold water in the face. It's short, just four areas with a dozen or so levels, and brutally hard. Maybe I didn't level-up correctly in Baldur's Gate, but I found every step a struggle of high-level encounters, traps my their couldn't disarm and, worst of all, key puzzles. Additionally the expansion didn't have of the story elements of the original game. The game itself had almost no changes although there was a new auto-pause feature that was very helpful. Hard-core Baldur's Gate fan with a high-level party (10+) will love Sword Coast but other should probably skip it.I'm sure that this add-on was pressured by the public to be released  quickly due to the great succsess of Baldur's Gate, but at the time of  release the price tag seemed a bit high for so little substance. Other than  some new areas and quests to complete, the only redeeming quality of this  package was the experience cap being rasied a tad giving all those  dual-class humans a chance to shine.  As a nice bonus, there are some  REALLY cool new magical items that could ease the time an Import character  will have in the next installment.didn't like the game in general. i'm sure this is a good game for others, but im didn't like itToy Story 2 is a good game.  It has it's fair share of mind-blowing colors and characters but its worthy of three stars only.  While I would say that the original story and the graphics are worthy of five stars, the gameplay is the problem.  This game is geared toward children and its cartoonish features and snappy music will appeal to them.  However, the controls are overly complicated for kids and the levels are frustrating more often than not (reminescent of A BUGS LIFE).  But then again, kids usually figure things out before adults so maybe I'm the problem...who knows.  Rent it first to see if you are interested in the purchase.The graphics are not very good and it is easy to complete. Toy Story on PS3 is alot better. But it is a fun game to play.Toy Story 2 for the PC was one of the first video games I ever played, and one I grew up with and loved as a kid. Lacking a decent PC, I chose to pick up the PS version instead for nostalgia's sake, and in most regards I see relatively little difference between the two versions. Toy Story 2 is a 3D platformer game in which you play as Buzz Lightyear as he sets out to rescue Woody in the events of the movie, and more or less runs parallel to the events of the film, visiting familiar venues like Andy's House and Al's Toy Barn while introducing some new locales such as Al's Space Land and Andy's neighborhood. Platforming mechanics are solid if not as fluid as I remembered them, combined with decent graphics for the Playstation, and gameplay is varied with the gradual addition of new environmental challenges and powerups that allow for new means of exploration and combat. Although only comprised of 10 levels and 5 discrete boss, the levels are fairly substantial, and new powerups encourage you to revisit previous areas to find secrets you missed. Nonetheless, the game will start to get a bit repetitive by the finals levels while rarely offering any decent challenge; the level bosses and minibosses in particular are some of the easiest I have seen in any game to date, usually involving blasting away with your laser in their general direction while mashing the spin attack to deflect attacks, and are almost always defeated within a minute or two. Emperor Zurg in particular was so laughably easy compared to my original memories that I will never view him the same if I rewatch the film.

The main problem with the game, one which chronically ruins the enjoyment, is the terrible camera mechanics. Rather than locking the camera behind Buzz rigidly or using the right directional pad to control it freely, the game either keeps the camera in place and then realigns to follow Buzz a couple seconds after he stops moving or allows control through the shoulder buttons. Neither option allows for vertical adjustment, making platforming needlessly challenging and leading to a lot of frustrating falls. Both options work poorly in practice, as the active camera cannot adjust on the move as you are battling faster enemies and the passive camera moves far too slowly to be useful, and in both cases the camera routinely gets hung up on terrain or decides to suddenly change it movement if Buzz turns in certain ways.

If you are a fan of Toy Story or have a kid that is, and are a relatively casual gamer, then this is a game for you. If you or your kid are a more serious gamer though, then it will be hard to enjoy the game's charm in light of its gameplay flaws.Welcome to street fighter in 3-D, Great concept right? On the plus side the game is done fairly well, balanced, decent animation & graphics. New characters are nowhere near as memoriable as the older Street Fighters, many are just flat out ripoffs... (Pullim is basically Cammy but black & dressed like a genie)1/2 the cast plays like Ryu. 1/2! Allen, Akuma, Sakura, Ken, Evil Ryu, Kairi,Shin Akuma... Enough is enough. Still it is worth a rent if you like Street Fighter.My almost 5-year-old and I got hooked playing Spyro 3 earlier this month. We've been playing endlessly. To take a little break we tried out Toy Story 2. What a disappointment. I don't think the graphics are that great, unless you're comparing them to a Super Nintendo. And the games are MUCH harder to play. We couldn't figure out what we were supposed to do in some rooms, and the skill required to complete most of the tasks is just beyond my youngster and I.
My other complaint would be with the help/instructions on-screen. In Spyro, the characters read aloud the messages as they appear on the screen. This means he can play the game by himself. But because he can't read, he can't get help or hints on-screen.
While he does seem to like it because of the characters, he just can't play it by himself, and his frustration level is pretty high with this one. Not to sound like a broken record, but if you've got a younger child, try Spyro 3 (or 2 or 1).I purchased this for nostalgia and unless you have your friends, it's pretty boring as any monopoly game would be solo.Frogger is a hard game, but the original was no walk in the park, either. Good level design overall, even if the difficulty should be tone down a bit sometimes.

The multiplayer race feature is pretty fun, but it's nothing near classic.Pros
Huge levels to explore
Decent graphics for a console game released in 1999
Very hard to die. Health doesn't deplenish very much when hit, so it's decent for kids.

Cons
Terrible camera angles
Hard to judge jump distances. Lots of falling and having to climb up to the jump again.
Short game but sometimes confusing puzzles.

All around mediocre game. Young kids probably couldn't beat it, but they would enjoy jumping around exploring the environment. My 4 year old loves to just walk around and shoot at things. When I was young this game was like the kids version of Grand Theft Auto. Buy it for the young ones.there was not a case and it was scratched a little but I did buy it used so that all.This game is OK! The story is weird and the adventure mode stinks! The classic mode is so much better! The only things wrong with this game is that controlling Q-bert is so hard and it is sort of boring. There just isn't much to do.I had VERY high hopes when I ordered this game due to a number of the reviews that I read.  However, after installing and playing the game, I was somewhat let down and I find that I'm not excited about continuing the adventure.  Don't get me wrong this is a fun game but in light of todays advanced graphics, sound and storylines, this game just seems a little outdated.
I found a very frustrating aspect to the game seems to happen when encountering a new creature.  At the initial encounter, I was hardly able to do any damage and I would usually be killed very quickly.  However, after restoring from a previous save point, then attacking the same monster....I would prevail without an extremely difficult fight.  This seemed to happen over and over again.
Anyway, here is my rundown of the pros and cons.
Pros:
-The game is huge and will take a lot of time to solve.
-Character creation and development has depth.
-Large number of magical items.
-Seems to follow the D&D rules closely.
-Adventuring decisions impact future interactions and character moods.
Cons:
-Character level progression is slow!
-The game is extremely hard even on the easiest setting.
-The numerous restores from save points gets old fast!
-Small inventory for each character requiring you to leave numerous items in dungeons or in the wilderness.
-Accumulating gold for weapons, armor and health potions is very difficult in the beginning.
To me, this game is like a bad movie that you continue to watch in the hopes that things will get better.  However, just like the movie, things have not gotten any better and I'm now a little frustrated.  Although I have had some fun playing, I was not able to become imersed in the story and I will probably stop playing.  If you enjoy challenges, you might like this game more than I do.Baldurs Gate is an entertaining game, but a great one?  No way.  It has too many major flaws to be a great game.
1.  The AI of the characters that you control is quite possibly the worst AI in the history of computer games.  The characters can't move more than an inch on the screen without getting out of the marching order.  The path making functions for the characters to go from point A to point B is pathetic!!!  Sometimes characters will wander around the screen aimlessly, or get stuck in a corner when you need them somewhere.  This tends to get your characters severely injured or killed.  It is a major annoyance.  This game is designed to run in real-time, with the ability to pause, but because of the terrible AI, you find yourself pausing the game every two seconds to micromanage your characters.  So much for real-time combat.  Turn-based would have been better.
2.  This game has scores of encounters that swiftly slaughter your party with no chance whatsoever of you surviving the first encounter.  The only way to get past these points is to reload your previous save game, which you will find yourself doing more than a thousand times.  After you reload, you cast a bunch of spells to make your characters more powerful, and redo the encounter.  After trying enough times, you win.  What is the problem with that, you ask?  It is pointless to use your wits to better prepare yourself for the unexpected, because the unexpected will easily wipe you out, and you can then reload anyway.  It's almost like "cheating".  Where's the challenge in that?
3.  The game is pretty stingy with experience points.  50-60 hours of gameplay only moves you up about 5 or 6 levels.
4.  The inventory system gets annoying.  Not enough slots, and a gemstone takes up as much space as a suit of armor. (Supposedly, this has been taken care of in BG2).
On the upside, the combat is fun when things go your way, especially the visual and sound effects created by the spells (I always wanted to know what an exploding fireball looks like).  Also, I thought that the plot of the game was very good.  The game has a lot of quests and sidequests, which make it nicely nonlinear.
Baldurs Gate is a fun game, but it's too tedious to be a great one.At first I liked this game. Especially because of the books I found and my encounters with interesting characters. But after a while it got more and more centered on combat. Even though the combat system is great, I got bored with it after chapter 6 or 7. after a while I got really sick of the 'find the bad guy, kill the bad guy, get some stuff from his corpse, give it to the good guy, get something for yourself' style quests. The game is simply TOO REPETITIVE. After chapter 6 or 7 I uninstalled it even though I suspected I was close to the end of the game.
Alltogether, I had good fun playing this game the first week, but after that it got annoying. For a good story I would recommend PlaneScape: Torment.Baldur's Gate has a terrific real time engine, where you get to see everything from what weapon or item your character is wielding to the unique spell effect an image is using. Except for a few bugs easily fixed by a patch, the game's engine is exquisite, and provides the best electronic RPG system that I've seen.
The only flaw for me is the fact that the game is essentially a hackfest. While an epic and intriguing plot is included, the real villain spends most of his time hiding behind his lackeys to the point where, despite a brief appearance at the beginning, you go through 100 hours of dungeons and monsters just to speak to him. There is almost no dialogue or character interaction, and the final few battles turn out to be an exercise in how many monsters you can summon rather than an opportunity to utilize real strategies.
While the combats are entertaining to a point, I prefer more story-intensive games such as Final Fantasy or Planescape: Torment. But at the same time, this game does provide an excellent setup for it's sequel, and Baldur's Gate II improves on everything the original does wrong. If you like combat, or if you want to get the whole saga, you will want to pick up Baldur's Gate.Castlevania is a darkly digital adventure into the Gothic world of the Dracula legend.

 There's the ubiquitous Vampire Hunter, this one's name is "Richter Belmont", a 23 - year old mortal hunting the Lord of The Undead, estimated to be over 400 years old.

 Richter's 17-year old girlfriend, "Maria Renard" goes looking for him, & is, of course, captured by Count Vlad Tepes Dracula {sic}; so she ends up presenting an additional problem / obstacle for Richter.

 These magnificent creatures so easily beaten by inexperienced & pathetic mortals? Please.

 Obviously, the philosphical theme is that of the "Good vs. Evil" simplicity, but remember, it is just a game, after all. There are some idealistic disturbances, such as werewolves being slaughtered, & of course, there's no real choice of actually being Dracula Himself, or a demon, for that matter, but the player does get an opportunity to battle, & even kill them.

 Alucard, Dracula's confused & ingrate son, is an option, however, he has the same type of mentality besetting 'Nick Knight'; that is to say, unappreciative of the magnificent being he is, & the Dark Gift bestowal.

'Death' {Thanatos} makes a special appearance, giving Alucard a dire warning, & ends up making off with his weapons... he he he.....

 After some brief scathing philosophical arguementation, in which the Dracula character makes a rather good point, the battle begins, amidst the triumphant & haunting strains of an organ.

 Castlevania comes off as being a 'cross' between a movie & a videogame.

 Castlevania contains magnificent scenery, & some pretty damned good music.

 One major warning: Watch out for Demons!this game is a classic but i don't remember the graphic to be this bad. i used to play it when i was a kid and the controller are weird for today standards. the thing i like about the game is adventure part  and you discover new areas. if you can see pass the game graphic and control than get the game. otherwise is only for collectors.Graphics are okay for its time, and character development is okay.  One small problem.  Over-emphasis on hack and slash, and horrid problems with using spells in combat.  Also, being stuck at leveling to such a low level  bites.Baldur's Gate is the best AD&D game to come around in a while, but it drove me absolutely insane for the first few hours.  Why?  Because in the beginning, there are quite a few people who want you dead...including a few  powerful (at least at THAT point) wizards.  At low levels, a guy can walk  up to you, say "Okay, I'm going to kill you now," and quite  suddenly knock you out in 1-2 hits.  After a while though, you'll get into  it.  Man, you have to watch yourself in this game, because there is are  deceptive people in *every town!*  Lots of characters walk up to you asking  for help, and end up being villains!  To wrap it up, it's a keeper.  (especially the bundled version w/the expansion pack) but don't get  discouraged at the beginning, because that's the hardest part.  Once you  get by that, you'll have a good game with lots of side quests and  longitivity.Kingpin...where should I start?  The main highpoint of this game is the impressive and funny songs by Cypress Hill that were made exclusively for this game.  Aside from all the profanity and blood and gore, this game is  ok but not one of the best games from Interplay.  This game is basically  your Quake mod that has a story and some additional features added to it.  However it is funny to see the reactions of people in the game when you  pull a gun on them.  If you are up for lines and lines of profanity, tons  of blood and gore and missions that require you bounce heads with some big  boys, then this game is for you!  The only drawback is the long load times  so make sure your computer chair is comfy.Despite my liking for gore and profanity, this game leaves for something... I would say gameplay value. When I first started playing it, I enjoyed the nice Quake 2 based engine and the 3D Audio, but it quickly got me saying, "Why am I playing this?"
I understand the plot clearly, you want to become the Boss (the Kingpin) and you have to fight through gangs and other obstacles to get there. These obstacles include ridiculous missions of running back of and forth doing favors. Such as giving a bum some whiskey to get a combination safe number. I thought if a game has a Mature rating slapped onto it, it might as well have some Mature thinking puzzles...
The profanity is something that probably turns away most audiences, because most of the gamers are young and probably need parental admission to get games. To me, the profanity is interesting to hear, not annoying or disturbing. I have never seen a game so daring to use so much violence (until Soldier of Fortune) and profanity.
All in all, I would suggest anyone who likes graphic violence in gang-related environments and non-stop profanity.Railroad Tycoon II is a real time strategy game by Poptop software with complex interactions, interesting graphics and lots of thinking. The gameplay reminds me of Chris Sawyer's Transport Tycoon, In which you play a tycoon who control the trains, buses, planes and ships in the tycoon world. In RRT2 you play as the railroad baron and control the train transportation, Buy and sell stocks, set the train routes, lay the railway tracks, stations and take over companies. There are lots of real life trains and cities. The gameplay is quite good, It takes a while to learn to play and be good at it. RRT2's graphics are very good, The towns are very beautifully desinged, There are lots of beautiful terrain and real looking buildings, The world looks real, with rivers, forests, snow and hilly mountains. RRT2's screnario's are also very well desinged and a lot fun to play, It also comes with a screnario editor for you to create your own screnario's. Railroad Tycoon II has got a clumsy interface, It is very hard to lay the tracks with the mouse. There are other annoying factors like, You don't get enough money, It's hard to manage things when you have a lot of trains and stations, You need to pay a lot of attention at the stock market to make money ect. Railroad Tycoon II is a very good game but quite hard to play. If you like this game get Transport Tycoon, It is more intresting, lot more fun and quite easy compared to this.This game is very interesting. I never played Warcraft 2 for more than 30  minutes before I bought it. I really got into it. But then you play the  second race. They are the same. If you want to play this and Starcraft.  Play StarCraft second, so then you won't find this one at times mundane.  Yet it still gets kudos from me. Just play Tides of Darkness and Beyond the  Dark Portal with your favorite LOOKING race. Take into consideration the  annoying Orc voice. Still good. Does not need to rely on graphics.I used to own this game but after I beat it and played the multiplayer modes with some friends, I sold it to get some money. It made its debut on the Nintendo 64 back in 1998. Though its take on modern warfare was based on a battle between tan plastic soldiers and green plastic soldiers (with a funny background story), Army Men: Sarge's Heroes was a Doom/Duke Nukem clone that had its moments but ended up being a mediocre gaming experience.

In this game, you control Sarge, leader of the green plastic army battling against the tan plastic army and its leader, Plastro. Plastro wants to take over the world and kidnaps one of Sarge's friends, luring him and his army into combat spilling out into human world stages. So yes you'll embark on a tour of various human backdrops, overcoming the enemy tan army and obstacles. Everything builds up to the final stage where you face off against Plastro in a bathroom, complete with working toilet and bath tub.

The game allows up to customize your control setup and after each completed stage, it will prompt you to save. Doing so will keep your progress as the stages are pretty long. Since it's a army game, you use all kinds of standard weapons: machine guns, grenades, rocket launchers, sniper rifles, etc. If you take damage, pick up health kits scattered throughout the stages. But if you take too much damage, you'll die and will have to start the stage over again. When you want to take a break from the story mode, you can hit the multi player mode with 3 friends and shoot it out.

The PROS: You can see the charm of two dueling plastic armies fighting it out in real world stages just like little boys who grew up playing with plastic army soldiers and this game pretty much captures it well. The cutscenes detail what's happening so it's easy to get into. The sounds and effects are standard in an army combat game. It will keep you busy and the multi player modes are fun to play with your friends as all of the weapons from the story mode are available to use. The game takes advantage of the expansion RAM pack to pump out more effects. It's not required so it's a matter of whether you have it or not.

The CONS: The graphics are pretty damn ugly by today's standards and back then, it barely cut it. There were other games that pumped out better graphics so get ready to see pix-elation, glitches and the occasional hit/miss detection of weapons. The expansion RAM pack, while somewhat bumps up the resolution, isn't used to its full potential as there is little difference from using it and not using it. Those looking for a challenge will find it here but in the way of not seeing enemy fire, jumping off or falling off from high ledges mean certain death and dealing with the somewhat stiff, robotic feeling controls of your character. Also, the camera sometimes gets a little wonky so you have to always make sure its in your line of vision. Once you're done with the story mode, that's it...no bonus content or unlocking of extra features at all. At least, the multi player mode adds some re playability.

While it's fun to play for awhile, there were better shooters available at that time for the N64. The plastic army theme set atop in the human world is pretty cool so there is some fun to be had with this game. But that fun doesn't last long and you may be frustrated with its lack of polished graphics, uneven game play and controls that take some getting used to. Get it cheap if you must, but you'd be better off with Army Men titles that were released later on in the N64's lifespan.I had never played this game before I bought it (2011), so I didn't really know what to expect besides that all of the reviews I've read are horrible.  I bought it because I am building up an N64 collection and have always been a big South Park fan, but there have been so few games.  For this reason, I was pretty pleasantly surprised at how much fun I had with it.
  The game is set up like a mix between Mario Party and Jeopardy. You can pick 1-4 players. Each player has to buzz in and then answer a question. Some of the questions are about South Park specifics and others are general knowledge or things that practically no one would know. After the questions you go into mini-games, which there are a good number of (for an N64 party game) and which are all actually pretty fun. I even got my wife in on this, who is not a fan of 64 or SP, and we had a great time playing it.
  The graphics are about the same of any N64 games of this time period, think along the lines of the SP FPS game. The Audio, both character voices and music I found to be great and humorous. Controls could be better because you don't really use the analog stick, but didn't take away from the game. Remember, as with  most N64 games, the replay value is not going to be all that high, especially with the types of games out now. If you're looking for the ultimate party game, Mario Party 8 or Kinect Dance Central is probably a better bet, but if you want some nostalgia and a fun South Park game, this will do it for you.Unnecessary but entertaining exploitation of the ubiquitous South Park license, the game show format is good for an hour or two of mindless trivial pursuit.  The mini-games are fun but generally ridiculous knock-offs of classic arcade games. If you're not a South Park fan, you probably aren't going to buy it anyway.  [...]These recently arrived at my door. Eager to pop them in, I dove right in. The buttons are excellent, they do not stick and they work great. The cord is long. The D-pad isn't the most comfortable one I've used (Dragon Force was fine, but a twitcher like Tomb Raider started to get me sore), but it's an acceptable replacement. Maybe it will get less-stiff with use, but this'll work in a pinch.I didn't beat the game so I guess my opinion shouldn't count...but here it is:

This game has GREAT historical value. Prince: Sands of Time, Soul Reaver, God of War and many others are based on some things that Tomb Raider made popular.

Game would be perfect if save points were better placed. It would be best to have a save game option at any point but those were old times...

What I disliked: I beat Mexico levels playing each one two to six hours. I got to St Francis' Folly level.

Things started to look really tiresome: first, I spent too much energy beating pillar sub-level and didn't have spare medpack reaching ground floor. I restarted. I got enough energy by reaching ground but wasn't able to beat pool puzzle on top. Then I figured out that I should have gone to the ground WITHOUT USING SAVE CRYSTALS, open all puzzle doors (top level door is connected to ground switch) and then climb back up...which means another level restart.

Maybe this game is for hardcore fans, but I am not one of them...I got frustrated enough to quit.This is an odd mixed bag.  You have, on one hand, an honest-to-God intriguing story, with original characters and above-average voice-overs.  You got side-quests, hidden treasures, and deep background folklore...  Everything to please those who like a good book.  The graphics are good, except I would have preferred more animation frames on some characters...  Oh well...
Then you have the battles.  This is where the pain starts.  It is somewhat reminiscent of the real-time/turn-based hybrid battle system from the Final Fantasy series, with the added depth of having characters "build-up" three levels of power with time.  Like Final Fantasy, battles build up your characters' stats, to prepare for that ultimate final battle against the big boss.  Unlike Final Fantasy, the battles aren't that much fun.  The creature types are more or less the same, with minor color variations.  And you don't feel compelled to fight in the first place.  You don't want to fight; you just want to continue with the adventure...
The only thing that (may) push you forward is the top-class story.  The Story is what drives this game through, just like a good book.  Want to turn to the next page?  Well, must fight about 20 creatures 20 times to know what happens next.
This is the problem (for me at least).  An excellent story matched with a boring battle system make the final product a game of patience.  Recommend you download the demo first!  If you feel that you can enjoy this game based on the demo, by all means, buy-it!  If you are more of the impatient type, well either buy this game and download cracks or cheats, or look elsewhere.
This game would have been a better adventure game than an RPG.Ok, maybe not despair.
Total Annihilation was one of the first Real Time Strategy (RTS) games to use a true 3D environment.  It looks and plays wonderfully!  There's a lot of variety to units and the game can be truly  engrossing.  The strength to TA, however, is in multiplayer in human vs.  human combat.
The single player campaign in the game is adequate but  not compelling -- the story line is just enough to make playing the game  seem worthwhile without really getting you to buy into it and suspend your  disbelief.  Unfortunately this lackluster storyline is hampered by an  Artificial Intelligence (AI) that's really none too bright.  Once you learn  how to use a couple key units and buildings the computer simply has no  ability to be a serious threat.  Heaven forbid you should try multiplayer  cooperative against the AI... you'll be disappointed.
Overall, it's a  decent game but if you're not the type of person to match witch against  other people, then you may want to consider another RTS title with a  stronger AI.This is basically a point-and-click game with various puzzles to figure out; even the plotting itself is a puzzle to be put together to progress.  That is where my primary complaint with the game comes into full bloom.  The character(s) you control always move at a slow walk(there really isn't anything to run away from) and this is so annoying, especially if you have to walk from one side of an area(town, village, etc.) to another just to exchange information or gather an item only to return to the previous location.  One area made me laugh at one point because I had to once more "walk!" through an entire Aztec village just to gather the lineage information for six fallen warriors.  I broke out my pen and paper and subsequently got my virtual excercise.  But that is not the only moment in this game that I threw my hands in the air.  Another is in a small town.  The character(s) are able to pick up and use items they find in rooms, along the way, etc.  I am going to ruin this part of the game because it was utterly ridiculous.  I was "walking!" all over town clicking in vain, trying desperately to find any sort of an answer to the state of limbo I was in, when I suddenly picked up a rock.  A rock!  There are rocks all over that bloody town!  However, there is a lot here worth mentioning in glowing terms.  The places are all interesting and filled with unnerving characters.  There are many blood-filled chambers with defiled remains and maniacal behavior from the gruesome denizens that inhabit this game. There are multiple characters to be controlled, even if, in the end, they are essentially one character battling with his dementia.  That plot-line is revealed at the start of the game, so don't be mad at me for unveiling it now.  The mechanisms that have to be deciphered or puzzled over are all excellent as far as graphics and level of difficulty.  They are not so hard as to cause violent head-shaking, yet not so easy as to allow any random clicking to unravel them.  Overall, for a decent price, I can see many enjoying this game and "walking!" through the various areas patiently looking for clues...and "rocks!"  If you have a lot of time to burn then this is your game.  The fact that you can save the game at any point is also a large plus.  Take it easy.When THQ lost the rights to WCW and gained the WWF this game was a must have for me. I loved this game for ages, more then REVENGE, but as great as it was for a while, I must say I advise you get the step up version "WWF NO MERCY" it was the new and improved version and left this one for dead.What can really be said besides the fact that its South Park, its racing, and its crazy.  The controls aren't the best or most responsive in this game.  And it's more than a little annoying that you can't just choose any map when playing multiplayer and playing a map in multiplayer does not unlock any further maps.  My guess is you have to unlock them in the single player campaign.  More than anything else its clearly a game that someone didn't lose any sleep over (even while working to make it) and was put out there to cash in on the South Park franchise.  But if you're a die-hard video game person and you have a jones for the South Park gang to somehow be involved then this game is worth the handful of dollar bills.This is probably closer to 3 and a half beuse of a few nice features, such as the loading screen is a stained glass that fills in. But the actual game has a really easy campain and really hard skirmish. There are may different units for each different player. You pay for everything with mana that recharges depenting on the number of loadstones and divine loadstones that you place.  I would recommend buying it because of the cheap price.Being a big Wot fan, I couldn't wait for this game came out. But I only had a 386 PC! Then I got a much better PC, which left me with nearly nothing moneywise. Or I simply couldn't find the game. So I downloaded the demo--as one person said here, the demo is a horrible representation of the game, I'll take their word for it. But from what I did play, I was most impressed at first, playing it often, then there was a several-month period when I didn't play that game at all. The architecture is FANTASTIC in this game. Not exactly how I visualized it in the books, but pretty close. Multiplayer is Okay, but not great. The battle system, I think, is kinda clunky. When you need a certain ter-angreal right NOW it's hard to get to it without accidentally skipping over it. There isn't much of a variety of bad guys from what I've seen. Where's the Draghkar? Myrddraal? Darkhounds? Gray Men? etc. The atmosphere is nice in this game, though. Very dark at times. I'll probably still buy this game--hence the 3 stars. But if you want my real opinion, I feel that Robert Jordan's Wot series should be made by SQUARESOFT (the company that makes the Final Fantasy series). Squaresoft has EXPERIENCE with RPG's and if anyone could do justice to RJ's masterpiece, Squaresoft can. Like many of you have said, there isn't much of a quest element in this game. Anyway, I don't know about you, but I'm going to e-mail Squaresoft now and see if I can convince them to make something that will be what this game should have been.The game worked. However, if you let the opening sequence play, it would inevitably get stuck. You had to skip ahead to the main menu. It also gets stuck sometimes during game play and has to be reset, and the controls don't always respond. I'm not sure if this was an issue before it was shipped or if it was damaged during shipping.The "fun" rating here means the overall emotional effect of the game. There are some pretty genius and breakthrough things in this game i.e. the radio and the flashlight, the atmospheric effects achieved with the fog and darkness and switching between the real world and the altered world. One of the most impressive effects is where you are running from monsters in the dark with your weak flashlight while the shadow of what's chasing you can barely be seen behind. They did a h-ll of a job with the creepy level design and sound effects, very scary, but it's also a negative just because looking at rust colored bloody rooms and listening to hums and whistles is unpleasant. I also found the circle motif used in boss fights to be pretty genius. Some issues: The pace is stalled right from the start with a tedious key finding quest, this could take hours if you search manually, I got frustrated after 30 minutes and looked at an online walkthrough. That really becomes a problem with the game, all the locked doors and barely being able to see where you are going, it isn't fun. This was my first vague impression of the flawed game play, it's really a lot like Fester's Quest for the NES: it's gray, empty, you navigate repetitive looking areas, and swarms of hopping things are out to kill you. The story in outline is good, and has a clear goal that keeps things moving forward, basically "save Cheryl", but the scipt ranges from adequate, to boring, down to mst3k type badness like something from "The Touch of Satan". The camera can be a problem, and it's easy to get spun around and moving in the wrong direction when everything looks too similar. The puzzles on the last level feel too contrived, "there's a key but I can't reach it because a piece of glass is in the way", why not shoot the glass?Okay, after reading all of these crazy awesome reviews of this game, and being a huge fan of Silent Hill 2, I bought this game from here for $40.  And boy, was I disappointed.  Lets list the good and the bad

Pros:

Impressive graphics, considering it's a playstation 1 game

Great Music by Akira Yamaoka

Amazing Camera angles (especially during the opening run down the hallway type thing)

Fun to play

Good atmosphere.

Cons:
Not fun at all in the daytime, so you have to wait until night to enjoy it at it's fullest

The atmosphere is NOT backed up WHATSOEVER!!  This was my biggest gripe about the game!  Stuff like resident evil and dino crisis have less of a crazy atmosphere, but what atmosphere they do have is backed up by the sudden and unexpected appearance of enemies, and the extreme difficulty of killing the enemies.  Plus, with a lack of ammo, you're usually panicking.  Silent Hill has great atmosphere, but plenty enough ammo to kill the generally weak monsters that are found throughout the levels, and most of them are slow and don't do much damage to you, therefore they don't pose much of a threat.  Silent Hill 2 had Pyramid Head, and at some points I actually was too scared to continue on with the game on the fear that he might show up and slaughter me.  Silent Hill has absolutely nothing to back up this atmosphere, and if you can get past the disturbing look of things, and realise that there is nothing making the scary noises, you're just walking around a deserted area that has the lights out, some monsters, and creepy music.  What's so scary about that?  Nothing.  And when there are an abundance of enemies, it's not scary, it's just annoying, because if you can't pick them off one by one then you're overwhelmed and you die.

Like I said above, absence of enemies makes the game far too easy, but too many enemies makes the game too hard.

They should have had your character have crashed on the outskirts of town and had you walk to town in the middle of the night.  That would have been scarier, and better than just appearing in the town.

The alternate dimension is overused.  This problem was fixed in silent hill 2 though, and was executed perfectly

After my list of the good and the bad, you tell me what you think.  I wasn't scared playing this game (maybe made nervous a few times, but never terrified like I was playing the sequel).  It's definately a good game, but terribly overrated, and you can tell it's their first effort at the genre.

In all, being the silent hill fan I am (I own the first 2 games and origins, have seen the movie(which sucked, btw), and plan on buying the third and fourth titles when I have the money) I'm glad I bought this game, but It's not as good as the hype leads you to believe.Silent Hill - Circa 1999

GOOD:

- Considered classic to many hardcore "survival horror" gamers

- Was sort of considered too scary to play in its time, for some gamers

- A complex story, with twists and turns

- travel two different worlds, this one and a demon one

BAD:

- Graphics look pretty dated; fog is not graphically very pleasing

- Voice acting can be bad at times

- Controls feel dated

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:

- Slow moving "survival horror" game, which is more about solving puzzles, managing items, and unlocking doors then actually fighting for your life

- A horror game set in a town over run with all kinds of odd creatures

- Game and story are similar to books by Steven King and H.P. Lovecraft

- Multiple endings and even some bonus unlockables

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Resident Evil

- Alone in the dark

- Mist

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- This is the first Silent Hill game in the franchise and from what I've been told this games true squeal (story wise) is Silent Hill 3 and not Silent Hill 2Well I finally bought this game after hearing so many stories of how people catch "scare attacks" and what-not and not for nothing... I was totally! let down... I've played Fatal Frame and found that game to be down-right terrifying, and was hoping to get the same feel with silent hill, but nope... not at all...

Maybe it's because I'v ebeen spoiled by Fatal Frame? or maybe I should have played it when it was first! released... but I actually found this game to be kinda cute... lol. Following the monsters in the dark when they can't see you is funny, and beating them in the back of the head with a pipe when they're not looking is even funnier.

Some! things that seemed errie were the camera angles, the music and some voices that you hear. The darkness factor is alright but that radio? ugh... the worst! attempt to a creepy sounding radio noise... The puzzles were ok, and the monsters?... zombie dogs and flying bat things aren't scary... I'll finish playing the game hoping to be scared to the point were I scream like I did with Fatal Frame, although I don't think it'll happen. An ok game to add to a collection, just so you can tell who-ever was scared of this game that they need something more to scream about. :)As the world awaits the next installation in Capcom's flagship Resident Evil series, Konami has stepped forth with Silent Hill, a horror concoction all their own. Instead of merely riding onto the gaming scene on RE's coattails, Silent Hill strikes out into bold new territory and clearly distinguishes Konami as a continued force to be reckoned with in the videogame world.
Once you plop in the game, you're treated to a seemingly peaceful CG intro showing young widower, Harry Mason, on a tranquil late night drive with his seven-year-old daughter, Cheryl. The pair speed down the highway on their way to an aging resort town known as Silent Hill. But somewhere along the way, their trip is cut short as a young girl appears in the middle of the road, captured in the headlights of Harry's jeep. As Harry attempts to avoid hitting the girl, his car spins violently out of control and the world blurs. As Harry regains consciousness in the driver's seat of his wrecked car, he turns to check on his daughter only to find that she's missing. Where did she go? Welcome to Silent Hill, an adventure masterfully crafted by the use of sound, sight and even touch. Played mainly like an adventure game and not an action title, Silent Hill neatly sidesteps any obvious aping of the RE series by taking a more literary turn into the world of horror. With an emphasis on character and storyline, Silent Hill prefers to appeal to gamer's imagination by limiting their vision to a small range of light surrounded by inpenetrable darkness or by jarring any grasp of reality that the gamer might have on what exactly is going on in the game. In fact it's the storyline's refusal to adhere to a formulaic premise, with Harry confronting apparitions, chasing down demons and puzzling over diabolic visions, that makes the game so incredibly unique. Chills and shivers aside, Silent Hill is one strange trip into nightmares left untouched by the more action-oriented gameplay of Resident Evil. The most important factor of the game's immersive qualities ranges from Konami's depiction of Harry as a regular guy with whom gamers can identify with to the excellent use of ambient sounds to catch players offguard in their most vulnerable moments. Harry's plain appearance translates seamlessly into how he actually plays through the game. His aim is awful and his running pace, though quicker than most enemies, still keeps him only a heartbeat away from being mowed down by the demons running amok on the streets of Silent Hill. In fact, because of the limited amount of ammunition available in the game and Harry's inexperience with firearms, you'll find yourself evading enemies more often than confronting them. And this is one of the finest features in the game. Not only does this strengthen the adventure element in Silent Hill, but it also draws the player into the world of the game by mixing in enough realism into the madness. On top of this feature in the game, Silent Hill also refuses to ease up on the game in regards to atmosphere and mood. Backed by an ambient soundtrack, the game features some masterful effects that are sure to have even veteran Racoon City warriors quaking in their boots. From the inexplicable sobbing of an unseen child in a blood-stained school hall to the loud rattling of an invisible "something" underneath the floorboards that you're standing on, the game never sinks into predictability. Imagine all of this while never quite being able to see past arm's length into the darkness. Equipped with only a pocket flashlight, Harry is forced navigate pitch-black areas where demons insist on lurking just outside of the range of sight. Often, you'll hear them before you can actually see them, pushing the tension factor in the game to white-knuckled heights. But as masterful as Silent Hill is, it still can't claim perfection. In a completely 3D, polygonal real-time game environment, there are always going to be issues about control. Silent Hill slightly suffers from this. Maneuvering Harry in some of the game's tougher spots and getting him to go from dead stopped to run and back again can prove an exercise in frustration, especially when you find yourself trapped in a narrow hallway filled with murderous demons ? with only 15 rounds of Handgun ammo left. Visually, the game remains grainier than what's expected of a PlayStation game released in the system's fourth year. But the overall look of the game, with its murky fog effects and clever use of lighting makes good use of the graininess adding to the atmosphere of dilapidation and decay throughout the game. In the face of Silent Hill's brilliant gameplay, these flaws only take so much away from the game and leaves us wondering how great the game will be on a next-generation system.Throughout the years there have been dozens of Street Fighter ripoffs including Fighting Force. This is basically the same as all the others, but it does have some surprisingly decent graphics for a PS1 game.I know that this was for the PS1 and the N64, but it's just another Beat em' up with better graphics. It's alright. I played it for about half an hour before I got game over. A decent little time waster. Reminds me of an arcade game.I searched out this game after I read up on it a bit. "Genuinely scary... suspenseful atmosherics... disturbing..." screamed the fan-sites.  For starters, if you've ever played a Resident Evil game, this is too familiar territory. There are differences yes, but once you set foot in the school or hospital areas, it's RE all over again (running about in frustration opening doors, checking the map every 5 seconds, puzzles accompanyed by daft poetry riddles etc.) The other thing that sounded good to me were the nasties. The sites again babbled on about "sinister zombie children that brandish kitchen knives and scream with glee as the slash you with them"... errr.. hello? They appear to be teddy bears with spikey claws that just seem to fall in front of you gnawing at your shoes! The rest are all RE moonlighters - zombie dogs, giant spiders, giant moths... nothing origional or vaguely creepy. The game's most interesting point to me is the 'alternate reality' sections with are rang in with a strange air raid siren. Basically what happens is that all your familiar surroundings are given a very Hellraiser-esque makeover, all bloody chains, crucified corpses and rusted metal. But it's really just the backdrops that feel creepy, the monsters patrol around with the same stupidity as ever.  The monsters also cause a radio transmitter to crackle so that you know when you're not alone, but that kind of ruins any jumpy moments as you just stand there waiting for any would-be attackers to reveal themselves. Also, the crackle gets annoying after a while. Anyway, buy this if you're not familiar with Resident Evil, as it's far to familiar. Actually no, buy RE 2 or 3 instead.While there's very little storyline to speak of, VR Missions provides a plethora of challenging objectives that test strategic skills, quick thinking, and patience.  The controls are solid, the missions are varied, and the sense of accomplishment is certainly there.  Graphics and sound are minimalist and serve the game well.  Sure it feels like a small expansion and not a full game, but it's worth a look if you enjoyed the training missions from MGS.  I found the "confidential" image displayed after achieving 100 % completion to be a nice treat, and surprising as well.i think metal gear solid was THEE greatest video game ever and so i had to have this addition.  i was a little disappointed.  some of the msssions are a little drab.  the really good ones, where you play the ninja, do not happen till late in the game and so the fun is short lived.  some of the missions are so basic that i blew through them in no time and others so boring that i could finish them in my sleep.  this was not awful but not great and that leaves you with three starsI liked the story and the graphics weren't that bad but the main problem was with the controls and the camera angles at times. If not for that this game would've been great.This game is good...up to a point.  Like the bots in Quake 3, the senarios are either very easy or very HARD.  I've also noticed that when you start a mission, if you enter the cheat that reveals the whole map, you'll notice  that the enemy always has more than TEN chests of gold and at least FOUR  artifacts right within easy reach!  All this while YOU have to scrounge by  to surivive in the early game!  Later on, when you control vast armies,  which would make Waterloo look like little kids playing War, you'll run  into computers which will, naturally, have armies approximately three times  larger than your own. The game CHEATS!  Trust me, you'll be screaming in  rage too when you enter the scene with twenty of your best units and find  that the computer has seventy of his.  At least it's not as bad as HOMM2,  which had one mission put you up against more than 200 bone dragons!I always have have mixed feelings about the 'Heroes' games. They are a combination of 'Civilization' and RTSs like 'Starcraft' with a turn-based combat engine thrown in, I really enjoy the building and exploration parts. However when I get ready to start conquering, most times I find opponents who are ten times more powerful than I am. Most Herons maps require either a quick rush or a 'build combat force only' tactic. This is especially true on Large and eXtra-Large maps. If loved previous Heroes installments this one is more of the same. If you've never played Heroes before it's harder to recommend since the gameplay is monolithic. Fortunately you can pickup other editions such as Heroes III dirt-cheap. I encountered no technical issues playing this game.I bought this game souly on the fact that everyone hereon amazon has praised it as being a fabulous game.

Well, it's all right, but it needed a lot more to keep you interested after a while. I burst out laughing during my first race when I crashed and burned into someone, and I got 1st place for doing it! But, this game isn't as great as some have said. It's OK to drive the circuits or do the demolition derby in the arena, but I have gotten tired of it, so sorry to whoever said you won't get bored with this game, I did!

There isn't enough tracks, there isn't enough cars, and it really needs more in the game. It needs a proper race, without the demolition, you can do a time trial, but I want a proper race with all the cars. There also needed to be an option to turn the check points off... I just wanna turn around and go the other way for something different, but once you run out of time, it's game over. Also, it needed something else, like in Mario Kart where you get the shells to throw, or the boosters/nitros, or things to lay booby-traps on the track... this game really needed something like that.

Currently Nintendo has managed to bring out a Gameboy that's pretty much a compact SNES/N64. So if they release this game again, lets hope they add more to it.

Two player mode is OK. Most of what the reviews here say are true, the bomb tag is the best, but it sucks that there is only about 4 tracks to compete in.

All there is, is Arcade. Where you race the first race of the tournament, and that's it.
Tournament, or championship mode or something where you race about 5 tracks and a couple of demolition derby's.
Time trials.
And then 2 player with normal, destruction, bomb-tag and flag .. there needed to be heaps, heaps more included.

I believe if THQ had made another version, it would be the same as the difference between WCW REVENGE & WWF NO MERCY.. the extras just separate the two completely.

This game is ok. Good for 2 player. Not too bad in the graphics and controls. But it just needs more in it.This was another three dollar find in a bin at the resale shop.  When I was a kid I loved watching my friends or my brother's friends play this game and many other PS1 games that would later be heralded as classics.  I really didn't enjoy playing the games myself, because even my pre teen self in the mid 90s knew that the controls were absolute garbage.  Here I am twenty years later trying this classic again, and my opinion hasn't changed.

I can't say much about the game because I can't make it further than the first screen on the first board of the game.  You're thrown down in a little cave at the beginning, and your first task is to blindly shoot at a couple of animals who were just minding their own business.  Then you have to find a way out vertically.

The first jump you have to make in this game is ridiculous.  You have to make it to the adjacent rock.  There is a wall to your right preventing you from making a clean jump which also makes the camera go nuts.  Be prepared to make a lot of blind jumps.  It took me twenty minutes to jump to that rock which I promptly fell off.  Another ten minutes go by and I made that jump and got a little further up until I slid off a rock and all the way back down due to the horrible camera angle.  I actually tried to break the controller in half.  I have never been so mad at a game.

So there you have it, that is my review.  I couldn't make it further than the first screen.  If you want a classic tomb raiding experience that you may actually enjoy, check out Tomb Raider Anniversary.  It's a blast, and I actually finished that game.In all my years of gaming, I can truly say FINALLY that Sega has a good shooting/Doom/whatever game. The problem is you can't really aim that well without getting shot about fifty times. The multiplayer is average; online-capability would've been sweet. All in all, the graphics are, like any other Dreamcast game worth its salt, breathtaking. The sounds are nice, with explosions and speaking roles (not too bad voice acting, if I might add) however, the gameplay tends to wear thin and becomes stale after about three weeks. But thy'll be the best spent three weeks of your life. Get it. Now.Hype?  What hype?  I didn't even know about this game until I downloaded the demo!  I haven't been exposed to "The Hype," so my review is going to be completely unbaised.  So, what do I think of this game?
In  many aspects, simply vanilla.
I don't care what engine a 3D game use, as  long as I enjoy the game.  Just as the realistic gore and fun seperated  Soldier of Fortune from the rest, Daikatana's storyline set it apart.  Plus, in Daikatana, you can "level-up" and alter your stats as  you kill more enemies.  You can increase your weaon's damage, speed, your  jumping height, maximum health, and your running speed.
The weapons are  innovative, to say the least, with 6 unique weapons in each of the four  episodes. along with the Daikatana itself.  When you use the Daikatana at  first, it's a slow as crap.  But as you kill more enemies with it, the  sword becomes more powerful, until it reaches level 5, at which point a  flick of the wrist can kill anything.  The downside to this is that YOU  don't get level-ups.  Oh well, you've got to break a few eggs to make an  omelette, I guess.
Also, the locales are especially unique.  You travel  through four time periods, and in each one, there is unique architecture  that really sets the mood of the level, from the icy lands of 560 A.D.  Norway to the temples of ancient Rome. Unfortunately, those are the ONLY  things that set Daikatana apart.  The rest of the game is the usual  "find key/switch/artifact, open a door, repeat" formula.
Now,  for the BAD part of the review - the AI!  In the game, you'll get two  sidekicks that help you.  A few levels later though, you'll want to call  them "groinkicks," because they will impede your progress so much  that you'll want to give them just that!  The sidekicks get in the way of  your aim, they shoot YOU when you get in THEIR aim, they fall off ledges to  their deaths, and they'll go after an enemy, even if they have no weapons!  And guess what?  If they die, so do you!  Most of the time, you'll order  them to stay put and finish the level yourself.  And the enemies?  They're  cannon fodder.  No brains at all.  With the exception of the civilians, all  they do is rush you.  Believe it or not, the smartest enemies are...the  doors!  I'd swear that they have the minds of sadistic killers!  They just  LOVE to ambush hapless heros - they stay open until either you or a  sidekick walks through the doorway, and then they suddenly close, crushing  all that are in the way!  Enemies know well enough to avoid them, so I  guess in a certain respect, they ARE smart!
Overall, as I mentioned  before, Daikatana is vanilla.  There are new innovations, but when you get  down to the gameplay, it's more of the same thing.I got this game because it was supposed to be the best game ever. It's not. The main flaw is the overhead perspective. The overhead camera angle limits your view of the surroundings to a huge degree. You end up relying on a radar in the upper corner of the screen to navigate the levels. This is simply wrong. If I am supposed to be the character, then I should be able to see what the character sees. The game does allow you to go into 1st person view, but you can't do anything other than look around--not even move. This control system is far too limiting, especially when much of the game is sneaking around, which requires you to really see your surroundings. The aiming system is dumb too: you hold down the fire button to aim, then release the button to fire. This means there is no way to aim and then not shoot, and no way to hold onto a target between shots. I also tired of the interuptions in game play by all the cut scenes and radio conversation with home base. Get Syphon Filter instead-not as in depth or graphically detailed, but way better game play.Well, being new to the Tomb Raider games, i just tried this game for a few moments on my new PlayStation 2.  Whoa, this was not what I expected at all, in both a good and bad way.  First, the good side.
I was always a Nintendo gamer, naturally with a Nintendo 64.  In that case, this game was the first ps1 game I've ever owned.  Knowing that ps came out much earlier than n64, i was amazed by the graphics in this game.  Voice and backgrounds are all very nice and realistic.  Plus you get to play as a teenage Lara, which makes it even better.  You also get even more weapons, moves, and length in this game as well.
In this aspect I was very pleased.  But there always is a downfall:  THE CONTROLS!  What an impossible game to play.  And i'm not talking about difficulty, the controls make it difficult.  You move the analog stick from side to side and instead of moving Lara sideways, you just changed the direction of her view.  Then when you are lined up, you must push forward to move.  It is very difficult and some of the views do not help.
Just to show you how hard this really is to master, I've been playing this game for 2 and 1/2 hours now and still haven't advanced past the training at the beginning.  Ha, and the training barely helps with the controls.  All you will hear is "To do a long jump, press forward.  Then immediately push JUMP.  Then push ACTION to climb up the ledge.:  Yeah, like you even know what they are talking about or when exactly to push these buttons.
Overall, I give it 3 stars. Why?  First off, if you are an experienced gamer with Lara, I'm sure this is easier for you.  Second, it is rather enjoyable considering I have tried to play it 5 times now in a course of a day.  At these facts alone, the game deserves a 2.  But hey, it's 10 bucks. Thats it.  For that price, it deserves a better rating.
BOTTOM LINE:  You've played and like Lara, get this one too.  If you are a beginner like me, try an older version or another console's version of Tomb Raider instead.
WARNING: Just a warning for all PS2 users, if you only have a PS2, you can't use your normal memory card to save.  You need a PS1 memory card.Tomb Raider. I've played TR2,TR3 and i was looking foward to TR4:TLR. Know something? This ain't a bad game but it isn't a great game either.
Nice  FMV, lots of jumping and shooting. Maybe it's really fun but i still think  that i could do without the long long levels that sometimes stretches too  damn long that it seems that i would give up first.
Lots of backtracking.  Graphics and sound- pretty good but not spectacular or amazing. The story  is kind of good at the start but becomes ridiculous as the plot  thickens.
The last boss, an egyptian pyscho-freak is pretty dumb too, the  TR3 last boss was better, much more exciting.
Lara dies in the end or  maybe not- they have milk this money-cow. Anyway, i'd suggest you rent this  game first. And while i feel that the negative reviews of this game are a  little uncalled for-i have to say that it does get boring and it does fall  short of greatness.
But sadly, it's the only PS franchise i truly admire.Instead of all these ones from newbie gamers who are fixed on graphics? Alright. Instead of calling this the best PlayStation game of all time, or even more laughable, one of the best games of all time, or even sadder, the best game of all time, let's get a couple of things straight first, shall we? While not bad, Metal Gear Solid left me wanting more and getting less than you'd think. Hideo Kojima set out to make one thing: a movie-like experience game. On that level, Hideo created an unrivalled masterpiece that has few equals in the action and story category of movies... but that's just it: movie; we're supposed to be playing a game here, not watching a movie. And on that level, while Hideo didn't fail, he didn't succeed either... You play Solid Snake, an ex-Fox-Hound, just out of retirement, cold, 30-something, living legend whose whole life seems to circle around the battlefield. Your mission is to infiltrate a nuclear weapons disposal facility in Alaska being ran by terrorists Fox-Hound, and rescue hostages DARPA chief Donald Anderson and the president of Armstech, Kenneth Baker. On top of that, you are to find out if Fox-Hound really has the capability of launching a nuclear attack like they've threatened, and stop them if they do. This is one job you wouldn't want to take for all the copies of Radiant Silvergun in the world. The controls are fairly simple, nicely responsive, and easy to pick. The music ranges from the typical stuff you'd expect to hear to an action game, to some beautiful, almost opera-like vocal performances that are dark and astonishing. The sound is also well done, and very detailed. You (and your enemy) can hear everything: from footsteps, to tapping on the wall, to gunshots that you'd swear were the really thing, even the most jaded would be impressed here (hey... stop looking at me!). Speaking of the enemy, the AI to the game, while not all that intelligent at times (walking a course? Come on), is very interesting. They pick up on footsteps, gunshots, knocks on the wall, and even good ol' David's... I mean, Solid Snake's cold--impressive. The characters are lively and very real. I loved all the characters minus Otacon and Meryl; Otacon who I was hoping would "accidentally" get shot, and Meryl who, well, just felt out of place. The rest though, were amazing. Personal favorites were Sniper Wolf and Vulcan Raven who are, hands down, two of the coolest bad guys ever. There are also some cool bonus stuff to do, like the VR missions and taking pictures. You can also talk to your friends (that word being used loosely...) through Codec, which is like an ultra high-tech walkie-talkie. Occasionally the voice actors sound out of place ("Japanese animes"? Hello!), but that's very rarely, and the rest of the time they manage to not only avoid the trap of the Resident Evil trend, but do so with grace. Then, there's the problems of this game... The small ones would be the over-head camera, which gets annoying quickly. There are times when I'd miss an enemy, who was five feet away from me, all because the camera wouldn't give me a good view. No big. Then, there's the length of the game--it's EXTREMELY short. Scenario: I buy the so-called "best game ever" for ... (that's what it cost when it came out, mind you). I play game and enjoy the gameplay I do find. Metal Gear Solid is beaten in less than a day. Argh! I think you get the point... Not a major, major problem, but enough to deduct a star. But the worst problem is the story itself. Sure, it's impressive, and one of the best stories of all time (forget game of the year, call it movie of the year), but as Hideo himself said, combining a movie and a game is like combining water and oil--they just don't mix. Meryl and Snake's relationship "mature"? Please. By video game standards, yes. I suppose Squall's and Rinoa's was, too (I still shudder at the mere mention of those two Dawson's Creek stars...). But by the real world standards, it seems like cheesy puppy love that quickly becomes hard to swallow. That's not the problem, the problem is this: the story takes up WAY too much time of the game. And that's where everyone who's giving this a top-notch, perfect, five star rating (which seems to be everyone from Amazon reviewers to NextGen to your own ma and pa) gets confused--Metal Gear Solid is supposed to be a game, not a movie. As a movie, it's a masterpiece of epic proportions that can rival even T2. As a game, it's only fun for the few hours it actually lasts--or should I say, the hours where you're trying to stay awake through all the Codec talking. Sure, sure, you can argue that Xenogears was the same way, but A. Xenogears had a groundbreaking story, that just so happens to be the best story of all time, and B. I actually got more gameplay time out of the short and heavily texted second disk of Xenogears than I did the entire two disks of Metal Gear Solid. It gets sad when you're spending minutes upon minutes hearing about Snake talk about how he has no family when you're supposed to actually be playing the game. And while the gameplay that is here is fantastic, it's too-good story is not so surprisingly its own downfall. Just an idea, but wouldn't it be fun if we, I dunno, say, actually played a game, not a movie? Great idea, huh? Afterall, that's what this is supposed to be: a video game, not a movie....Metal Gear Solid has won just about every gaming award possible and has been lauded by critics and fans worldwide.  Despite the fact it's not really my area of interest (I'm a Resident Evil type guy) I bought the game (heck, it was 20 bucks, why not?).  This was last year.  I never finished it, and finally sold it.  Why?  Good question.  I finally decided that, ultimately, I wasn't involved at all with any of the characters or story events.  I didn't care what happened.  Do I think MGS is overrated?  Well, sort of.  Granted, the graphics, controls, and audio are as perfect as perfect can get, and there is no doubt that there are innovative elements (especially the sneaking about and the enemy soldier AI) but I found the characters and story as cold and sterile as the Arctic location in which most of the game is set.  It has no SOUL.  For this type of game, I feel this kind of personal involvement is VITAL. I wasn't swept up in the events like in Parasite Eve or Vagrant Story.  Metal Gear left me with the feeling I was performing a chore rather than embarking on a world-changing adventure.  The story felt scripted and unnatural, the characters flat and lifeless.  I think Metal Gear affected me the same way as this year's Shenmue for Dreamcast:  an undisputed technical masterpiece that felt devoid of humanity.  In any case, any gamer with a pulse should play through it (for the Sniper Wolf bits if nothing else), but be prepared for Snake and Co. to keep a distance from your heart.I love this game fear effect should of been a trilogy Fear Effect is a action game that is kinda a horror game at he same time.
 the prequel Fear Effect 2 retro helix  is more of a puzzle solving game but still is very good.I got this from Gamestop, for $5.00 used.  I kept wondering if it was good or bad.  Well it breaks down like this:
Pros:
-Great Graphics
-Great voice acting
-nice selection of weapons
-excellent storyline
-has a bit of comedy in it(Like when hana takes her towel off in front of a soldier, and Deke snaps his kneck)
Cons:
-Puzzles are COMPLICATED(I died, and tried many times trying to get them right)
-The inventory system takes too long for me to get a weapon, so I died sometimes, trying to get my favorite weapon
-After you play it the first time, there's no real thrill to play it the second time, unless you're trying to get the best ending on hard.
I still play this game when I want to, it's just that it's just not the same like the first time I played it, cuz I didn't know what was going to happen(I didn't use a guide because I didn't want to ruin the suprise, and man it was a painful long jurney)  If you like games like Silent Hill or Resident evilm I would definitly recomend this game, but rent it first.
peaceThis game is the predecessor to Fear Effect 2 and the upcoming Fear Effect 3: Inferno.
This game and gameplay are very similar to Tomb Raider, Resident Evil and all those action/adventure games where you have to solve puzzles.  This game actually does deserve a mature rating -- with unadulterated gore, some suggestive sexuality and mature discussions of vengeance and under-the-table monies. The graphics is also well-done using a combination of anime and 3-dimensional graphics.  The child's playroom in the Hell level is particularly creepy, and it is very reminiscent of Nightmare on Elm Street.  The voice acting is done well, but Hana has the whole Valley Girl thing going on that becomes very annoying after an hour or so.  Hana was actually much more mature in Fear Effect 2 than in Fear Effect.  The music in this game also wasn't as good as in Fear Effect 2.  The cinematics in this game are great and are nearly as good as Metal Gear Solid (as a date-to-date) comparison.  The only faults of this game that I can see are the long loading times -- before and after deaths.  I liked the Fear Effect series over the Tomb Raider and Resident Evil series because you have to have patience, a whole lot of moxie, some more brainpower, and a whole lot more reflexes.  Overall, buy this game cheap, and you won't regret the purchase.  Otherwise, stick with Fear Effect 2: Retro Helix.Don't get me wrong, I'm an avid fan of the HM franchise! I do love the SNES version and so forth, BUT for some reason I can't seem to get attached to HM:64, I don't know if it's because it's so choppy, or if it's because the old 3D aspect at the time is just confusing. It seems like back then 3D graphics were just utterly confusing, thankfully now at least for the most part its fixed.

I do plan to go back and try it out, who knows maybe if I give it another go I may get attached and change my views. I'm willing to try anyway...

I'm more of a fan of the original HM, HM:STH, HM:AWL, HM:MM, HM:ToT, HM:AP, and so forth. HM: 64 just doesn't hold appeal to me, but who know that could change as I dive deeper into it.By far this game it's much more fair than the original Tomb Raider. This one at least let you safe the progress anywhere in the game without looking for any type of save crystals which made original game incredibly difficult and punishing.  This sequel may not be the best game out there for the PS1 but at least it's a bit more fun to play.It's a cute game.
I don't like the word cute.
It's over used. This game is fun and quite colorful. enjoy. I recommend you do some gardening this spring and summer though and play this game on the side.The dating sim thing is fun the first few times, but there isn't much else to do here.  Some of the girls are REALLY obnoxious, and the gameplay is so-so.  The Battle system, however, is simply terrible.  I played it once and sold it.  It's not worth the money, really.Plagiarizing makes the video game world go 'round.  Sega had Streets of Rage, Nintendo had Final Fight.  Before that, there was Double Dragon and Renegade.  And that's just one subgenre.  It is perfectly common for a game to be released on the heels of another game, utilizing the same structure, topic, and style of gameplay.  In the case of Carrier, it is obvious that their developers stayed up a lot of nights playing Resident Evil.  But if you're going to rip off a game, at least attempt an improved version, not just a pale knock-off.
This game does nothing better than the Resident Evil series.  The graphics are worse by being so simple (and dark, dark to the point where I had to turn up the brightness on my TV to see necessary objects.)  The premise is twice as hokey as RE's S.T.A.R.S. group.  It isn't nearly as scary as RE.  The long stretches of dialogue exposition in Resident Evil were tolerable because they were interesting and revealed plot points.  Here, they are tediously boring.  RE has minimal backtracking, this has copious amounts of backtracking.  And, most comically, Resident Evil had one of the most cheesy, hokey, unbelievably delivered dialogue of any video game EVER.  So Carrier should have at least got THAT right, huh?  Well, sadly, no.  How Jaleco managed to find voice acting even MORE uninspired, boring, and wooden than RE, I'll never know, but they did.
So that's the story.  Gameplay is a mirror image of Resident Evil.  Same artistic backdrops, same wanky control, same "spooky" atmosphere and gradually revealing storyline.  Just twice as boring and unnecessary.  Especially now that RE2 and RE3 are available on Dreamcast, you might want to make Carrier the last of the "survival horror" titles you obtain for the Dreamcast.
Well, it is better than Blue Stinger.  That's a plus, right?So this is old school GTA. It's not a bad game for it's day, but it has some definite age to it now. The biggest problem you may run into is that you can't save it on a PS2 system. You either need a PS1 system or try to play it on PS2 without saving it.Grand Theft Auto 2 - Circa 1999

GOOD:

- A better version of the original

- Sort of fun and different in it's own way

BAD:

- Really dated graphics, even for its day

- Gameplay is pretty old and controls can be tough for some

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:

- A Top-down run and gun game where you steal cars, kill people, and live a life of crime

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Grand Theft Auto

- Grand Theft Auto: London 1969

- The legend of Zelda: A link to the past (but a lot more urban and violent)

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- There is a version of this game for Dreamcast, with slightly better graphics

- There is a version for this game for the PCI first played GTA 2 on the PC/Windows 98. When I played it on PSX, alot of things were missing like the rocket launcher, and weapons near the start area, and alot of the voice bytes ( Wasted!, Job Failed!, Frenzy Failed! Busted!) aren't in the PSX version. That's why I like computer version better.I know there are a lot of mixed reviews. I am a disappointed consumer who will be returning this game.  I love playing one person/multi person shoot 'em up games--like Quake 3 Arena.  I like stealth, strategic planning spy/shooting games--like Metal Gear.  But Rainbow Six should not have been made for the Dreamcast.  It just doesn't suit to go on a console system.  Loading time is horrible, the graphics aren't impressive (for DC), the sound is not so good, and the controls are quite hard to maneuver.  The gameplay, however, is potentially good.  IF you like stealth, slow, strategic game, this would be an okay game to play.  But, here's a warning: when you are playing against many enemies, you will get frustrated with how difficult to aim/control the joystick.This game wasn't bad, its just the loading times, bad graphics, unstable combo system and some fatalities are nearly impossible to perform.This was the first MK game to try 3D, so it was okay but not great. The control's aren't bad but there not as good as other MK game's and the graphics are just okay, nothing special. Id say this is more for fan's of the series than general gamer'sThis was the first MK game to be in 3D,using motion capture technology. When I first played this game I did not like it. I could not grasp the new idea that Midway had with this game. Over time though,it kinda grew on me. This game included some klassic MK characters,along with a few new faces too. The fatalities here were all done in 3D,just as the gameplay. This Playstation port is decent,but not great. Far from it actually. The textures on the characters are pretty bad. The characters look a bit blocky and the gameplay can be a bit choppy at times. Another problem is this game loads ALOT.Overall though,this port of MK4,is just okay at best. If you got a Sega Dreamcast,pick up Mortal Kombat Gold instead. It's the same as MK4,but it has extras. Such as bringing back characters,Baraka,Mileena,Kitana,Kung Lao and Cyrax. Plus the graphics are ALOT better. They are very smooth. Pick that up instead if you can. If you just own a Playstation/Playstation 2,you might like this too. Just don't pay too muchFor those who hate gore, violence & evil creatures, this game's not for you...For starters, it's a violent shooting game sequel from PSX's DOOM version...Unlike in Duke Nukem 3D, you cannot jump nor crouch...The enemies are the same but they're more plenty...The mazes are harder but your weapons are still the same...Even though they've added extra levels like Plutonia and TNT, the graphics and the handling are quite the same...But don't fret, idSoftware would release DOOM III sometime this month on PC.The sheer number of games bearing some form of the name "Street Fighter II" is staggering. So when Capcom announced that it was putting together a compilation of Street Fighter games, I was stoked. My excitement quickly cooled when I discovered the true nature of Capcom's package. Street Fighter Collection contains Super Street Fighter 2, Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo, and Street Fighter Alpha 2 Gold, a slightly updated version of Street Fighter Alpha 2. The original Street Fighter 2, Champion Edition, and Hyper Fighting are nowhere to be found. The result is a shallow package that should have been so much more. The graphics and gameplay in the Super games are almost identical to what you remember. Every frame of original animation appears intact, and there isn't any noticeable slowdown. However, the graphics do appear a bit fuzzy. The sound is decent, and the music even speeds up and intensifies when a character is near death. The second disc contains Street Fighter Alpha 2 Gold. The game is almost entirely identical to Street Fighter Alpha 2, with only a few differences. First, any character that was in Street Fighter 2 Champion Edition can switch between normal and Champion Edition modes. Playing a CE version of a character disables his super meter and changes a few moves here and there. The CE character graphics are still Alpha 2-style. Also, there is now an Akuma mode, which pits your character against Akuma over and over again instead of fighting all the other characters. Also, Cammy is hidden in the game. She appears in her X-Men vs. Street Fighter costume. All this is fine and good, but what about all the other great Street Fighter games? Where's SF2 Turbo: Hyper Fighting? Or the original SF2, complete with Guile's "handcuffs" and all the other weird little glitches? Capcom truly missed out on a great opportunity by releasing a "collection" that is obscenely incomplete. If you're really itching to play SSF2 or SSF2T, this package is right up your alley. But fans hoping for a complete collection must keep on waiting.Rampage World Tour did well in the arcade scene as it picks up from the first Rampage title back in the 80's and updates it for the 90s back then. Then, Midway decided to port it over to the N64 and in 1997, it was released and sold a decent number of copies. It's exactly like the arcade and it's decent fun for awhile. Then, it just gets old fast and you realize you do the same thing over and over again.

You pick one of three characters: the gorilla, the werewolf and the lizard. Your job is to just cause as much destruction and mayhem as possible on each stage you're in. The stages take place in various cities based on the real world so you'll see famous landmarks along the way. The police and military are hot on your tail so grab various health power ups to stay alive (or eat the many innocent people running around.) Eventually, you'll fight all the way to the moon where you'll defeat the mutated CEO of the company responsible for turning you into a monster. There's only one mode to play so grab 2 more friends to play along with you for even more destruction. At various points, you're allowed to save your progress and since it's a big game, it will take you awhile to see everything.

The PROS: Midway did a nice job at duplicating the arcade game so it looks, plays and feels just like you are standing in front of the cabinet. Playing by yourself is fun for awhile but it's better when 2 other players join you and you can either work together or just beat each other up. If you meet certain conditions, you'll access secret areas just like you can do in the arcade version.

The CONS: The fact that it's just like the arcade game is its biggest drawback. Even if you play with your friends, you're doing the same thing over and over again: destroy cities, eat people and rack up as much points as you can. The repetition kicks in pretty quick and just seeing it to the end will feel like a chore. It's also easy as hell since you have unlimited continues and there's no penalty for not clearing out stages in time. The stages pretty much look the same except for the major ones since they feature famous landmarks but overall, there is little variety. Midway didn't bother to put in extra content to unlock so when you beat the game, that's it. The only re-playability comes in finding the secret areas/cities tucked in somewhere in the game.

Rampage World Tour is not a bad game at all. It can be fun if you play it in chunks and it certainly is even better with other players. If you loved the arcade game and can't get enough of it, this game won't disappoint. But with no extra content and repetition sinking in after playing it for awhile, it keeps it from being better than it should be. Get this one used if you want to try it out.Alright, I don't like this one as much as World Tour, but this is a solid game in and of itself. You have three basic monsters to chose from (Rhino, Rat, and Crab) and you set off to unlock the original three monsters (Gorilla, Wolf, and Lizard). You can actually save in this game and progress through the story unlike the pick-up-and-play nature of World Tour and there is a secret character to unlock. This is a good game for kids and a better game for kids who like a challenge.

That said, older kids will get bored. It is repedative and monotonous at times. Your kids will likely tire of the music and play something else. But for what it is worth this is a solid entry. Get it if you are on a budget and your kids like to see monsters eat sprites for a few moments.Overall decent game.  I just hate the constant load times it really slows down the game and just makes it feel very stagnant.  I also think the CPU is unfair because the game becomes next to impossible after about the 3rd fighter even when it's on very easy!!!! every move you do is countered perfectly by the computer which is the thing I hate the most.. however I do like the one button fatalities and the huge selection of characters.It's okay and everything no skips freezes but it does take along time reload and whenever I lost and I would have to shut off the console to continueEven though this game IS fun, I must admit, this game is REALY old, especially now that the newest MK game vs. DC Comics is coming out this fall. This game is pretty fun, like I said before, but the game is almost impossible to beat and I think I only beat the game a couple times. If you want something challenging that's classic, get this game.hard?? this game isn't hard a all that is y its not fun the CPU  is like freaking retarded even if you put it in very hard  mode the only people that present a challenge are goro montauro and  khan other than that the game is like cake  i wwas able to beat the game with subzero by cheaply refreezing people over and over again  and doing it with ease ... i like the one for sega genesis more it was much harded a challenge and better music... unless you got human players to play with u  don't waste your time with this gameShao Kahn's final attempt to control the earth is upon us......You have no choice. Defeat Kahn's deadly warriors or die trying.

1. 32 immediately playable characters plus 4 classic characters
2. The new Agressoer Kombat Mode arms the quick and meciless with more strength and power to inflict heavy, damaging combinations
3. Over 30 moves and (Fatal/Brutal)"-alitites" never seen in the arcade
4. New brutalities let you pound opponents until they explode
5. 7 humiliating stage fatalities that send defeated opponents plummeting out of the arena to a grizzly deathMortal Kombat Trilogy, a fighting game that takes all of the characters from 1-3 and Ultimate MK3 and placed in a massive (at the time) fighting game. basically all of the same sprites from the other games (excluding Johnny Cage, which is the only new looking sprite in the game) put them in a fighting game that is just Mortal Kombat 1-3 with a few missing levels, missing the Pit 2 fatality animation, and adding 4 older versions of the characters with some horrible animation. I still like the older MK games, but with the age of the newer mortal kombats (Deadly Alliance, Deception and Armeggedon), these games feel a little too outdated. I think this is a great game but it has a ton of glitches (and there's only one good glitch in this game). when you turn on the 1 button fatality option and when you try to finish your opponent with your 1 button fatality, it doesn't always happen. sometimes you might end up still trying to finish your person off and no matter if you hit that person or whatever, you have to wait until the match is finished. When you play this on a PS2, if you have the speed doubled and you finish a match, it freezes on you, if you have the graphics level doubled and you either finish the match or something else that you do, it might or will freeze up. If you don't have either option on and you decide to start over from the beginning (that stupid buy in screen is what I am talking about), it freezes on you. The only good glitch in this game is that when you play as Noob Saibot and you do that jump and grab move, if your opponent is to the point to uppercutting him/her off the bridge and into the Pit 1 spikes, you can actually have that person fall all the way to the ground instead of just landing on the spikes and having them stopping the opponent falling all the way to the ground. you can actually see a little bit of blue on the bottom of the screen when this happens.

because of these horrible flaws, thisis why I am giving the overall rating of 3. If this didn't happen, then yes I would recommend getting this, but because Armeggedon is coming out in a few days (which has all of the characters from the series, including Chameleon from the PSone version of MK Trilogy, Meat from MK4 and 2 new characters from the Konquest mode in that game and hopefully won't have any horrible glitches like this game does), it's probably pointless to get this. If you don't like PSone and you have a N64, get that version. If you don't have either but have a PC, try getting Midway Arcade Treasures Deluxe Edition and the PC version of MK4 (I think they released it for PC too). If you hate either PSone or N64, wait for Armeggedon. If you don't like the 2 systems and don't care for Armeggedon, get Deadly Alliance or Deception on the PS2, GC, or Xbox. If you don't like that, then youare out of luck.I bought this game yesterday because I wanted the nostalga of mortal kombat.  I was very unimpressed with MK:DA on XBOX so I bought this game.  The store only had this game on Playstation and not N64 which I what I wish they had.
I took this game home dusted off my Playstation and popped this game in. Almost immediately I remembered how cheap and chessy these game can get.  I had no problem getting to the bosses but once you get to Motaro and Shao Khan, the only way you can win is with luck and not skill.  They both do the same chessy move over and over and over and over again, and there is nothing you can do about it.  If you try to do a move, the computer's apparant pshychic ability counters your move before you even do it; very lame programming.  They also added a throw to Shao Khan's already cheesy arsenal which makes him even more cheap. This game is better when playing other human players, ...  It takes more luck than skill to beat this game.  Another drawback is the slow loading times on Playstation.  ...  These slow loading times and also slow loading times during Shang Tsung's morphs's helped me remember why I hated playstation so much and stopped playing it in the first place.I never played this game back in the day, so I figured I would go back and check it out. It was an interesting game and pretty fun in its fighting mechanics. The puzzles at times were not difficult on their own; it was just difficult to always see and know what you needed to do. Platforming was very difficult and frustrating at times with the old mechanics and lack of camera control unless you held a bumper.The game works and i got it as a gift for somebody and they enjoy it as it brings them back good old memories, it was pretty used and the case was so-so, for its price and the fact it works, it got my 3, thanks again.Defenately not the best Mortal Kombat game. Although not pityfully awful like stated in other reviews, the game isn't extremely fun. I spent hours tring to beat the game, and when I finally did I was very diapointed. The graphics weren't bad, at least not too much. The story of the game (isn't great either).
But, it's the link that shows what went on between the Shao Kahn tournaments and Mortal Kombat 4. However, the game plot also contradicts few things to the typical Mortal Kombat legacy. For example, aren't the four elemental gods supposed to be good? Then why are they on the bad guy's side? So in the end, the game is somewhat fun, and long lasting, but is it really worth your money, to me it was, and at times it was, but the final decision is up to you, you decide, I 'll just give you a little advice: don't get it.Rampage is a classic series no matter what anyone says. But Rampage 2 Universal Tour isn't that much different than the previos Rampage World Tour. Granted yes, there are new boards, new challenges (from both mankind and outer space!) and you do get to use new Mutants but when it all comes down to it, the game gets a little repitive after a while which always makes a game boring.
That and this game was really long, and if you had the Continue option, I couldn't find it and that's another dimension that made this game too difficult for what it was. I won't deny that I had fun while I played but after a while, it seriously goes out of normal rotation.
I loved the fact that you (like the last one) could rampage with 2 of your friends and wreak havok on the world but still, I would make this a renter first before you committed to buy. I'm not saying it's not worth to buy but I am saying that you could easily get tired of this after a weekend or two.youre an oversized mutant version of whichever animal you choose.you destroy major cities all over earth and all the other planets by climbing up them and punching in the walls.its like that the whole way.so if your say drunk,over medicated,bored to teers or something like that then youll get a huge kick out of this.otherwise its  quickly loses its warm appeal just like cold oatmeal.Rampage 2 is awesome. It's more of the same from the orginal but moooore monsters. I was up all night with this game, plus theres a twist..YOU HAVE TO SAVE THE MONSTERS FROM THE ORIGINAL IN ORDER TO EARN THEM! Thats pretty friken awesome. The 3 new memebers of your team are a krab dude a ryno dude and rat name Kurtus I think. I don't remember there names because I played this game awhile ago.

There is also another monsters thats and extra for the game. I think the monsters name is Miyakis or something like that.

WAY TO GO MIDWAY! This was a great game.

I hope they make another sequal in the future RAMPAGE 3 which takes place in iraq or something like that well that would be mean I guess if they do that...ALL IM SAYING IS THEY SHOULD MAKE ANOTHER SEQUAL! It's bin to long.

The sequal to the original is better if not just as good as the original.

3.5I was always a fan of MK.  I always felt that the first MK gave the best atmosphere, and the sequels killed that aspect, instead adding more characters and 'neat' moves rather then the Goth dark horror I perceive the MK universe to be.  This game steps back into that style, with a feel for what is truly behind the characters, and the meaning behind the tournament.  However, this game has some bothersome aspects, like too few lives, too precise timing required (especially in the second stage with the windmill platforms), and too much to guess at.  Over all, this game is better then average, but could have used a little more, in controls.  A good buy, for MK buffs.Falling down pits in the wind and fire stages are awful. The fighting scenes are kind of difficult as well. It can be fun, but only with a low difficulty, or the cheat codes. Only get this if you're a hardcore MK Fan.The graphics are mediocre, the fog and pop-up are dire, and the cars handle like wet fish, but the best thing about SF Rush remains the wonderful track designs, full of wild jumps and shortcuts.  The tracks are  faithful to their arcade counterparts, so if you want to go under the truck  and jump on top of the buildings on track two, go for it.Amber is different than most games you've been playing. There are no puzzles to solve. That's right! No tricks, no frustration. Amber is the name of a paranormal psychic energy -measuring device that leads your friend Roxy to utilize the new equipment in an old haunted house.  Something goes awry and you travel to this home to see what happenned to Roxy and her new equipment.  Sound fun? It is.
Mysteries. Mysteries. Why is Roxy unconscious wearing the Amber head gear in the garage, of all places?  Should you experiment with the equipment? Sure.  Beware as you follow in your friend's footsteps while trying to figure what happened to her. This PC game is fun. It takes you through portals of time to uncover the secret of the hauntings. I found the game to be quite thrilling. Things really do go bump in the night!
So why only three stars? While the idea of mystery puzzles vs. physical ones seems original and fun, the game is easy.  A young high schooler could figure the "moves" out. You are given a place, a circumstance, and an enviroment with tools. Everything you need to solve the mystery is staring you in the face. Go ahead and give it a go. The plot, first-person scenario, and all the truly frightening hauntings make this an easy going game. A perfect breather to play in between the usual brain-frying choices.Interesting little game, though it's nothing to write home about. Graphics are passable, acting pretty good, writing fine (better than the execution, unfortunately). Takes a while to get started, but once it really starts it's got some great moments. Not scary, except in a pleasantly spooky slumber-party-ghost-story sort of way.Omega Boost - Circa 1999

GOOD:

- Overall fun game to play

- Fast and furious gameplay

BAD:

- Graphics might look a little dated

- Controls can be a little tough

- Game gets pretty is tough on higher levels

- Short game with no real unlockables or bonus

IF IT FITS YOUR TASTE:

- A 3D shooter which plays like a fast and furious version of Panzer Dragoon

- Simplistic arcade style presentation

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Panzer Dragoon

- Colony Wars

- Zone of Enders

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- Static X (the 90's rock band) did some of the soundtrack I believeOmega Boost is an okay game. The graphics are probably the best on PlayStation, rivaling Final Fantasy VII. The music is cool at the beginning, but later okay. The gameplay is not too bad, but could be worse. After you beat it , there is not much left after.Finding a good Dreamcast controller these days is kind of rare, and finding a good Dreamcast controller for the killer fighting games for the Dreamcast is near impossible. The Dream Pad is decent. It's comfortable, and the inclusion of Z & C on the face are great, but they still are in an odd position. One can get used to it, but this would be a second choice for me, or even a third what with the now super rare ASCII Pad FT for Dreamcast (only released in the Asian market) or a Nuby Tech Street Fighter controller for PlayStation and PS2 + a 3 in 1 Dreamcast controller adapter, which accepts PS2 and Saturn controllers as well as a VMU, which can be found at some import gaming web sites. But if all that is too much a hassle for you, then what the heck, get a Dream Pad, since they will not be in stock forever.If you are looking for something new and innovative, this is not it. This is a great Mortal Kombat game, thats all it is. Some of the other reviews here are a little misleading, they are expecting a whole new game. It is a near perfect replication of the arcade version. Characters included: Scorpion, Johnny Cage,Sub Zero, Katana, Mileen. There are even hidden characters to play, I believe Goro, Sector, Noob Saibot. Modes 1vs1 and 2vs2. Only complaint I have is the controls are pretty sensitive, you can't use the analog button, you have to use the regular directional pad, which is a pain in the Thumb. Thank God, I got the Blaze arcade stick, which does wonders for the game. The graphics are nice and so is the sound. The computer is pretty challenging even at the easy level at times, and there is no online play. Go ahead and grab this title (for the price you can't go wrong) and have a Mortal Kombat title for your DC. Gamer247 is OUT! GAME ON! (I actually give it 3 1/2)If Dreamcast is the only system you own then by all means this is a must have for MK4 fans. However the presence of the new fighters are not enough to constitute a new game. The characters that were not in MK4 bring with them their signature moves to this Sega Dreamcast version, but their weapons have the same moves and fuctions of the already excisting ones. Also the throw moves and bone breaker moves are already owned by MK4 original characters. As for the new fatalities, nothing new either. The MK4 fatalities are some of the best, but the new ones are not impressive here. Save your money if you already own MK4 for Sony PS1 or N64. If you do not own any excisting versions, the needless extras don't hurt I guess.If you allready own Mortal Kombat 4 for Playstation or N64, then there really is no reason to own this unless your a die hard MK fan.  This game is essentially MK4 with added characters and much better graphics.  One of the first games released for the Dreamcast.In the spirit of the game itself, let's start this review with an Epic Prologue:

~~1998. One year ago Final Fantasy VII singlehandedly transformed video games forever and ushered in the Golden Age of Square. SquareSoft was now officially a Big Deal. A VERY Big Deal. Super Mario RPG, Chrono Trigger, and Final Fantasy VI had all been megahits, but Final Fantasy VII was a phenomenon. The back of the CD cover art says it all: "Quite Possibly the Greatest Game Ever Made." Afterwards, Square had just about cemented its reputation as Quite Possibly the Greatest Video Game Designers Ever with a string of successful titles that included Final Fantasy Tactics, Parasite Eve, Einhander, and Bushido Blade. It was like they were incapable of making games that people didn't love. Square was at the top of its game. Its popularity-- and profits-- had never been higher.

But there was one small problem.

There was no avoiding it. It HAD to happen. Square was now faced with the unenviable task of producing a sequel that could live up to and surpass "Quite Possibly the Greatest Game Ever Made."

Square had been in the game long enough (so to speak) to know what kind of a situation they were in and what kind of people they were peddling to. An unpopular sequel has the potential to wreck a franchise-- and if it's an especially high-budget sequel and the franchise in question is your main moneymaker, it can sometimes even prove fatal. Square could not afford to screw up Final Fantasy VIII, and any final product less than "Quite Possibly the Greatest Game Ever Made" would have constituted screwing up.
~~
Final Fantasy VIII is an aberration. Everyone wondered where the franchise could possibly go after its groundbreaking and apocalyptic seventh installment, but NOBODY could have possibly predicted how VIII would actually turn out. The Materia system-- which was a modification for the Magicite/Relic system-- was swept aside completely and replaced by the Junction system. Armor and accessories vanished; party members now equipped Guardian Forces and spells. Weapon upgrades are no longer necessary. SeeD, the mercenary group for which your characters work, introduces a salary mechanic, making slaying monsters completely irrelevant to earning Gil. Enemies leveled up along with the party. Cutscenes and conversations constituted a far larger portion of the game than ever before, and the exploration and battles the series was built on became far less prominent. The whole package was presented as a vehicle for a new breed of love story. The designers defied expectations the only way that was sure to work: warping and breaking every rule they could, catching everyone off guard and keeping their heads spinning. It's a Gordian solution: if a standard can't be met, CHANGE it instead.

Doing things differently, of course, isn't a fault in itself; but whether the changes are improvements makes a big difference. Just look at what happened with Final Fantasy II. Final Fantasy VIII and its plethora of new concepts and mechanics are much less of a failed experiment than the series' ill-fated second installment, but they're still, at best, a mixed bag.

Final Fantasy VIII is the first entry in the series to use realistically-proportioned character models that remain consistent between field maps and battle screens. In addition to making its cast more realistic in their physical appearances, Final Fantasy VIII also strives to depict them thinking and acting more like actual people instead of exaggerated cartoon characters who rely on gimmicks and archetypes to define themselves.

The game centers mostly around Squall Leonhart, the shining star of Balamb Garden, who is often characterized as a lone wolf who has difficulty expressing himself to others, but it's much easier and a lot more accurate to just say Squall's an enormous jerk. All throughout the game, you're forced to watch him whine and sulk about whatever happens to be bothering him at that moment. People speaking to him annoys him. His friends annoy him. His instructors annoy him. His job annoys him. His fellow students inexplicably look up to him, even though he treats most of them like subhuman mongoloids. On the plus side, Square does an admirable job of fleshing him out. I don't think any game that came out before Final Fantasy explored their protagonists' inner lives so thoroughly. It's a shame that this protagonist happens to be such an unlikable, angst-ridden, jerk.

His love interest for the game is played by Rinoa Heartily (no, really). As "princess" of the Forest Owls, a resistance group fighting for Timber's independence from Galbadia, Rinoa commissions SeeD for assistance with the Owls' harebrained schemes. Rinoa is the outsider of the group. She never attended Garden, and isn't a SeeD, (huh, I just got that) like the rest. Rinoa used to bump uglies with Seifer, but she develops a crush on Squall because she evidently has a fetish for self-absorbed jerkwads with gunblades. She has a down-to-earth and impulsive personality, and the only possible way Square could have possibly characterized her any more maladroitly would have been to make Cyndi Lauper play over the soundtrack whenever she appears onscreen.

The rest of the party is sadly somewhat two-dimensional. Quistis is a former SeeD instructor who occasionally acts as an advisor to Squall, but doesn't do much beyond that. The only two emotional states Zell seems capable of are "OHH YEAH!" and "AWW, MAN!!". And Selphie, the transfer student from Trabia Garden is a typical perky Japanese schoolgirl, who also happens to have paramilitary training. Battle Royale has NOTHING on her. Irvine Kinneas is a sharpshooter from Galbadia Garden who is responsible for some really tense and emotional scenes at the end of Act 1, but then takes the entire rest of the game off afterwards.

Over the course of the game, Squall periodically falls into a dream-like state in which he experiences the world through the eyes of a stranger. This stranger is Laguna, a Galbadian soldier who aspires to be a famous journalist. His wacky misadventures lead him all across the globe until he finally finds himself stuck in Esthar. Laguna is Squall's opposite: clumsy, good-natured, loquacious, and...well, likable.  His character is an intentional throwback to the less brooding and more cartoony heroes of Final Fantasy V and VI. His two level-headed war buddies, Kiros Seagill, and Ward Zabac, also recall JRPG's 16-bit days, when it was excusable to have a character without a complicated backstory or complex psychological motivations to explore. They have cool weapons, even cooler fighting styles, and that is enough. Seriously, screw the main cast. Final Fantasy VIII should have been about these guys.

The main headliner antagonist for the first Act of the game is Sorceress Edea, who received her sorceress powers first at the age of five, and then once again as an adult, thanks to a mix-up involving time travel. It might be worth noting that a terminology change was made in the North American localization of Final Fantasy VIII. The English script refers to Edea as a sorceress, but what she's called in the original Japanese is evidently a lot closer to "witch." Interesting choice. "Witch" is a bit of a loaded term; Square's American branch probably worried that players would associate it with pointy hats and broomsticks, inadvertently softening the impact of the sleek, stylish, and genuinely menacing trio of Edea, Adel, and Ultimecia. But "witch" still might have been the better choice: Possessed Edea's speech and manners are very evocative of the Hans Christian Anderson breed of witch, especially in the scene in which she lures Seifer to her side. (The old woman in the gingerbread house probably spoke to Hansel in the same tones.) And since Final Fantasy VIII's world was designed to have a more predominantly Western feel than previous entries', it makes sense for the game's story to tap into Europe's traditional witch-phobia. Possessed Edea speaking of the populace's deep-seated hatred and fear towards sorceresses isn't terribly evocative; the scene probably would have struck more of a chord with English-speaking audiences had she referred to people hating and fearing witches instead. Ah, well. In any event, the series never had a better villain than it did in the first half of Final Fantasy VIII. She is a mix of the queen from Snow White, Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty, and the stepmother from Cinderella mixed and stirred together with honey and arsenic.

Supporting her is Siefer Almasy, who is talented, self-absorbed, short-tempered, and fiercely independent. Soon after his arrogance costs him his last shot at becoming a SeeD, he defects from Garden to serve as Sorceress Edea's personal knight. He is her bodyguard, commander of her armed forces, and an anti-SeeD bloodhound. When Edea is neutralized, Seifer retains his control of the Galbadian Army and continues to take orders from Ultimecia out of sheer stubbornness - to prove that he was right and will come out on top over Squall in the end.

His rivalry with Squall is one of the games other main highlights. Square knew it had scored a hit with the Cloud and Sephiroth face-off in Final Fantasy VII, so they tried taking the idea a step further in the next game. Cloud and Sephiroth were basically just two guys who happened to get in each other's way, but Squall and Seifer are two sides of a coin. The conflict between them seems so much more fitting and inevitable. They have known each other their entire lives. They use the same weapon. They have polar personalities. Their hair and clothes are opposite colors. They have matching scars. They have both been romantically involved with Rinoa. You could probably say that Seifer comes out the loser because Squall discovers the POWER OF LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP over the course of the game, while Seifer insists on going off on his own and pushing his friends away from him. Its a shame he has to share the stage with Edea, Adel, and Ultimecia, who all take turns stealing his thunder. And never once does he post a serious threat when you actually face him in battle.

The final foe you go up against is Sorceress Ultimecia, a cruel and vastly powerful foe from the distant future who seeks to achieve Time Compression for incomprehensible reasons only she knows. To accomplish this, she uses a machine to bring her consciousness into the present to possess people and find a girl named Ellone (who is nothing but a plot device that walks and talks) whose unique power can take her even further into the past. Only there, apparently, can she cast the spell that results in the compression of the past, present, and future into a single moment in which only she can exist. Really, I don't have a clue, and I suspect Final Fantasy VIII's writers didn't either. The whole scenario practically screams RUSH JOB. Thanks to some trickery involving Ellone's powers, Squall and the heroes manage to allow Ultimecia to only achieve a partial state of time compression - just enough to let Squall and co. vault into Ultimecia's time period while retaining access to the present-day world map, certain dungeons, the airship, and all the important Triple Triad players from Balamb Garden. Don't ask how it's supposed to make sense. It doesn't. Time Compression was also a great excuse for the producers to slash the production budget for the ending sequence. Why is half of the ending movie made up of distorted and looping FMV clips from earlier in the game? TIME COMPRESSION. If you want a few laughs, check out some of the bigger Final Fantasy fansites out there and watch them try to analyze and explain Time Compression. See what they come up with. It's really surprising how many of them have convinced themselves it's legitimate. To Ultimecia's credit though, her battle is amazing. She puts up a tougher fight than any Final Fantasy end boss yet, including Kefka and Sephiroth.

For all Final Fantasy VII's ambivalence towards urbanization and industrialization, Final Fantasy VIII presents a world of modern, clean, and relatively harmonious European-inspired cities. And whereas Final Fantasy VII's world, sharply divided between pastoral Arcadias and industrialized sprawl, embodied the game's themes, Final Fantasy VIII's sometimes seems like it was designed to be little else than a pretty-looking place for the heroes to run around in. This isn't surprising; Final Fantasy VIII's narrative intentionally directs its focus almost exclusively on its characters rather than any underlying social or environmental messages. The game's cities, ruins, and remote railroad tracks are designed and rendered beautifully, to be sure, but its world often feels a lot less diverse and more compacted than Final Fantasy VII's Planet.

The latest incarnations of the famed Final Fantasy summon monsters are Guardian Forces, independent energy sources that SeeDs capture and junction to their brains (no, really) to augment their fighting abilities. One of the benefits of having an elemental deity living in your head is the ability to manipulate certain types of energy. This skill is called Para-Magic, and was developed as means of giving normal humans a way to counter the "real" magic that only sorceresses have access to as descendants of the Great Hyne. It's possible to play through Final Fantasy VIII half a dozen times and still not pick up on this. The game is full of tidbits and plot points like this; in order to really understand what's going on in Final Fantasy VIII, you need to talk to everyone and explore everything. It's a real treat for players who enjoy meticulously exploring every corner of a game, but potentially alienating for those who'd rather just play for an hour or so a day to unwind after class or work.

Speaking of unwinding after work: Triple Triad. This is probably the best minigame in any JRPG to date, and possibly Final Fantasy VIII's most influential aspect. The rules are simple, the matches are quick, and the rewards are great. Since it's low-maintenance and totally optional, casual gamers can play only occasionally and still get some neat stuff out of it. But there are also enough tricky rule changes, special opponents, and rare cards to seek out that the more hardcore audience might actually spend more time in Triple Triad matches than actual battles.

There are multitudes of fans out there who hold Final Fantasy VIII as their favorite game in the series. Fine. I can live with that. After all, the Junction System and Triple Triad are loads of fun, and they're both exclusive to Final Fantasy VIII. But it has come to my attention that there are people out there who love the game for its story. That's something I have a much harder time swallowing.

Even today, video games are still a developing medium. It wouldn't really be fair to sit here and try to compare the love story of Final Fantasy VIII to the multitude of far superior efforts out there. This game's love-themed plot may have fallen short, but you can't say the developers didn't try.  As bad a taste as the Squall/Rinoa melodrama leaves in my mouth, Final Fantasy VIII attempted something that hadn't been done before in video games, and deserves kudos for that.

But what they don't deserve kudos for, is "Eyes on Me."

Final Fantasy VIII intended to make the line between video games and cinema even blurrier. Somewhere during the development, it was decided that the game needed a signature theme: a song that do what "Dont You (Forget About Me)" did for The Breakfast Club, or that one awful Aerosmith single did for that one awful Bruce Willis flick about asteroids. So Square called up Yu Yamada and Faye Wong, who went on to write and record six minutes of constructed sound so trite and sterile that even Lite FM would be reluctant to spin it. Final Fantasy VIII's signature tune, "Eyes on Me," is as much a love ballad as Grape Drink is a fruit juice. It's comprised of ingredients that are derived from or resemble things you'll find in a good love song, and it almost sort of sounds like one-- but it's really only pretending. "Eyes on Me" is a spiritless and artificial affront to music, and should never have been a big a deal as it somehow became.

In the end, I'm still scratching my head here. Final Fantasy VIII succeeds and innovates on so many levels, but fails and trips over itself on just about as many. It has some of the most realistic-looking characters ever seen in video games (at the time of its release), but they still act like two-dimensional cutouts. It has the best party customization system since Final Fantasy V, but the dungeons are short and the enemies easy enough that you could theoretically play through 90% of the game using nothing but GF attacks. "Premonition" and "Vithos Lusec Wenos Vinosec" are among the best and most evocative tunes ever composed for a video game, but "Eyes on Me" is a stinking bottom-feeder. Final Fantasy VIII attempts to blend video games and cinema; the result is half above-average video game and half evil omen of things to come (Final Fantasy Spirits Within). The list goes on.

Final Fantasy VIII isn't really a step forward for the series, but not a step backwards, either. It's a hop to the side; a change of direction of an even greater scale than the false start in Final Fantasy II or the steampunk Renaissance of VI. This is the new face of Final Fantasy. From now on, expect the norm to be Japanese teen-idol heroes, millions' worth of eye-popping special effects, epic Hollywood storylines, and a general sense of substance being overidden by style and high-end fluff. Success can sometimes be the worst thing to happen to a creative outfit.This game was...my first ever introduction to Final Fantasy back in the days when the internet started becoming commonplace (circa 2000-2001). I was first introduced to it after playing the great Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time since I was new to the plethora of RPGs out at the time. I have gone back and played this game many times since then. I give it credit for bringing me in but I do not deem it the best Final Fantasy game. Let's start with the pros.

PROS
For PS1 graphics, the character and monster modeling was really good. They everything seem more realistic by having the characters' heights and widths proportional during and outside of battles. The animations during battle had more detail than Final Fantasy 7. For example, looking at a Tonberry from FF7 and comparing it to FF8 I could see more detail and texture in FF8. The Full motion video cut scenes were also really nice to look at. Everything looked smooth and transitions to the normal graphics weren't terrible to watch.

Having the ability to summon your espers (Guardian Forces) during battle an endless amount of times assuming it was still alive, could help during some of the more difficult battles (Con on this aspect mentioned later).

Easy to level up for those who get tired of that aspect and know where to find the right enemies (i.e. Vysage, Lefty, and Righty in that one gorge on the Galbadia Continent).

A vast selection of spells and abilities.

Challenging Sidequest Boss fights (but not impossible)

The music was awesome. There may have been a few tracks here or there could drive one nuts (Fithos Lusec Wecos Vinosec playing in the sewers at the end of disc 1)

Now let's talk about the Cons. These will outweigh the pros.

CONS

The junction system.
I don't hate on this setup completely because it could employ strategy. There is no MP like in the most other FF games. You draw and stock magic from enemies and warp points to boost your stats, elemental defense, and status defense but you have to watch which spells you use and how often or your stats will suffer. Leveling up doesn't seem to affect your character growth much. For example, junctioning 100 Ultimas to the strength of a level 15 character could produce better results than raising that character's level to 100. Character levels truly come into effect when determining the strength of the monsters since they level as you do. But this can make story line bosses less challenging.

The drawing.
So, you go into a battle against a caterpillar creature and you see spells like Thunder and Cure that you "need." Your goal as an RPG player is to make your characters the best they can be. So to do that you stand there and draw the spells that you want/need. But you realize that the more you have the better you'll become. Thus, you will take 1, 2, or all 3 characters available and just draw the limitless amount Thunder and Cure spells to fill up your 100 stock limit. All the while being smacked, or chewed on by this giant bug. It's damage is minor and if you see your HP getting super low just cast a Cure spell on yourself and you are good to go! 10 to 15 minutes later you have 100 stock of each spell for each character... Now let's do that again with a different enemy and for different spells. Oh wait, some characters only draw a few at a time while others draw a larger amount (up to 9) per turn. Gee, their magic skill just sucks! You will spend hours just drawing magic to junction to your stats and never use for fear of weakening your character. Later in the game you will be able to Refine magic from items in vast quantities but even still if an enemy has a spell you don't have access to right there and then (cough meteor cough aura) chances are you will spend the time drawing to have it for "just in case measures." I could go on and on with this but this drawing really is nothing but busy work.

The summons:
Yes it's neat to interact with them more often than previous games but that can be a huge detriment. They are best known for helping you learn abilities. The game has an algorithm where you get your money based on the steps you take around the world and it goes up the more monsters you defeat. At the same time it will go down by a set amount if you haven't battled enough and just walk around aimlessly for hours in circles. You have to keep battling to maintain it at the highest salary given. The catch is if a summon defeats the enemies you don't get the credit for it. It has be done by your party members. This makes the summoning less appealing. Granted there will be times you will feel the need to let loose the destructive power of Bahamut or Doomtrain but at later points in the game your characters can become so strong that it would be a waste of time to summon. Plus, your character has a compatibility with each summon and it goes up or down with every summon depending on which spells you cast and other summons you use. Need to use Shiva on a Bomb? Go ahead but every time you do, Ifrit will be harder to summon! Some people will just save them for the boss battles but either your characters will be at a decent stat level after all the drawing or the instant you summon a GF some bosses will go ballistic on the summoner and severely hurt or kill your GF. The abilities are useful and come in a wide range but until you find the right places to get the ability points for each ability faster (Cactuar Island) it will be a long wait before getting Encounter None or Call Shop. How do you even get these summons? Most if not all are optional and minus a few, you just draw them from boss battles. I would have preferred the old ways and actually fought to have them at my side.

The story:
I won't give too much away if there is someone out there who wants to play it for the story and overall experience to make their own conclusions.
The overall idea  about time travel and tragic love stories intertwined are intriguing and it has left some open ended areas for fans to speculate how it all began or why it all ended the way it did. Was it all a dream? Was she the future evil form an alternate timeline? But there are some plot holes that really drove me nuts. If these young adults can summon almighty beings to fight off the evils of the world, why haven't they done so already? Let's sneak in and assassinate a powerful figure with a sniper rifle. Wait, why not just summon Ifrit to throw a giant flaming meteor at her and kill her on the spot? Three discs saved! This could be a complaint with other Final Fantasy games (like 7). The difference here is that you can summon these things in battle multiple times until they, you, or the monsters on the other side are dead. In FF5 and prior you were limited to your MP pool and you could argue that "with great power come great responsibility" and that could carry over to realism. In FF6, espers could only be summoned once per battle and with the required MP. In FF7, up to 5 times (ignoring the master materia stuff from sidquests) but still you were limited to your MP pool. It was a basic stratagem of conserving your resources for the right times. This could roll over into the story and play parts into why the characters made the decisions that they did. Where is that conservation in FF8? Ifrit can rain fire down on people so long as he stays alive. It doesn't tax Squall's health, stamina, or magic stock to do so. If there were seemingly realistic limits in place (like using a set amount of fire spells to summon Ifrit each time) maybe I could get behind it more.

And then there's the part where one character appears at the end of the first disc and it takes him a full disc to reveal that he knows who everyone is except for one person, how they grew up together a long time ago, and how the evil they are fighting is someone dear to them from their childhood. WHY WASN'T THIS TOLD WHEN THEY TRIED TO ASSASSINATE THE NOW EVIL PERSON? No justifiable reason is given. The others forgot thanks to the use of the summons and how it affects their memory. This was barely explained at all but even if it that works why would the one person who remembered everything not try to tell them something rather important? If there had been more thought put into this being plausible like he had amnesia and being around everyone stirred up memories, that would at least scrape the barrel. The problem again was that he knew the whole time because he didn't use the GFs...GAHHHH. Noah Antwiler was right.

There are a lot of other things to nitpick about here like how a prominent non-playable character allows you to see the past and tries to change it for the better knowing it is futile and not having their powers ever given an explanation on how they got them or why they got them...but I have droned on long enough.

For me, if you leave out the story, the game play with battling can employ some strategy to a point but by amassing enough money, finding all the right places to level abilities, and go to  the right shops, you can buy and refine rare items to boost stats and abilities to near or at max. As an addition I forgot about the card mod ability that can turn enemies into cards and you can refine items from them (like the morph materia in FF7). So, just for game play and experimenting, it's not a terrible game but it definitely is not the best>

If you leave out the battle system and look at the story alone, it has some serious plot holes and would require fan speculation to fill those in. It has prompted a lot of thought on my part to fill in the voids. But part of that is the beauty of it. Love it or hate it, this game has given a lot fan speculation and theories on who these people are, their backstories, and their future stories. I am ignoring the fanboys and fangirls jumping on the "Emo-coolness" of Squall. I can appreciate and understand Squall's motives and like his design and abilities but it's a rehash of Cloud from FF7 only with a more involved love story. Cloud and Tifa shared feelings with each other but it was more of companionship and sibling-"hood." I don't recall them falling in love with each other to the point of boyfriend and girlfriend. Final Fantasy 8 is not the best game of the series but like I said before it actually brought me into the series so I have to pay it homage. I give it a 6/10.I rated this game 3 out of 5 stars, because its okay it doesn't beat Final Fantasy 7 far as game play is concerned.  The reason why I dislike this game is it takes too long to level up once and the game gets harder.One of my favorite games i bought used disks show wear but they work that's all that matters to me....lousy deathmatch appeal.  Uninspired, retooled, reused weapons, very un-fun level design, and a shoddy skeletal system for models.  That had to beef up the speed so it would be hard to tell.  Other than that, for some reason it just is not fun.  I do not know what it is, just that it seems the fun had been yanked out.  I played Q1 and Q2 religiously, and was chomping at the bit for Q3.  It got released, I grabbed it, and was very disappointed.  At least other companies put the engine to good use for entertaining games.UT offers more gameplay modes, more innovative weapons, smoother graphics...
Quake 3, unfortunately, can't compare to UT.Quake III Arena is a first person shooter, Unlike the first two quake games it is a single player deathmatch game with AI players and ofcourse a really good multiplayer deathmatches. Quake3 has the best graphics i have ever seen in a computer game, Environments look breathtaking, Charecters look really great and the multiplayer maps design is excellent. Sure there are very few orginal weapons but the weapon detail is superb, The firing makes us forget we have already tried them before and the way they shine after picking up the quad-damage is really beautifull. The single player gameplay is good enough to tell players who have never experianced an online or lan deathmatch "This is how a multiplayer deathmatches experiance would be", with an excellent single player deathmatch with AI players. But sadely it is not that much fun for players who have played online or lan multiplayer deathmatches. Quake3 has the best multiplayer deathmatch ever, There is not a single dull moment as you keep seeking and destroying your friends or enemies before they get you. Finally a quake game not having a great single player experiance is ok, But i hope Doom 3 has a great single player gameplay and not just a Doom 3 Arena. Quake III Arena is not that disappointing, It has great graphics and an excellent multiplayer deathmatch and that what gamers expect from a quake game.I have both Unreal tournament and Quake 3. Even though I like Q3 I think UT is a better choice. Single player in Q3 totally lacks.. it gets old quickly. The multiplayer is nearly unplayable unless you have something better than 56k or something over a 600mhz processor. Don't get Q3 if you have less than a 500mhz processor..unless you have a VERY good video card. You won't be able to enjoy Q3's best quality..GRAPHICS. Im not putting Q3 down it's a revolutionary game and a good high action deathmatch... I still enjoy playing it online with other people. But check out Unreal Tournament first. UT beats Q3 in most aspects.Final Fantasy 8 begins with a CG video so impressive, you think yet again Squaresoft has managed to create an excellent RPG adventure. The opening sequence switches between an intense swordfight between the game's hero, Squall, and his archenemy, Seifer, and scenes of Squall's soon to be lover, Rinoa, dancing through a field of flowers. It's artfully done, and very exciting. However, the results of said battle are underwhelming. Both men receive as wounds a scratch on the cheek, which happens to deliver Squall to the hospital. And so, in a matter of moments, the game switches from awesome to disappointing that its hero is such a wimp. Despite some triumphs in the graphics area, FF8's lame story, uninteresting characters, and step away from the traditional RPG norm make it a forgettable experience.

The main problem comes from the game's plot, which wouldn't be so bad if cutscenes weren't so long and there weren't boring and cliched characters populating the story (the only non-human characters in the game are enemies). Squall is a Cloud wanna-be, only he takes his role a little too far. He becomes an emo, depressed teenager who delves too much into his own thoughts to notice that the game's three beautiful female characters all have feelings for him. Right. Squall, along with his archenemy Seifer, is a student at a school called SeeD, whose purpose is to train teens to fight and undergo secret missions. Seifer is a much more childish version of the frightening Sephiroth from FF7. He bullies fellow students by calling them "chicken-wuss," rebels by not wearing the school uniform, and intimidates his teacher. Just an immature little punk if you ask me. The other characters include Quistis, the teacher barely older than her students; Zell, the friend easily fumed by such comments as "chicken-wuss;" Selphie, the vivacious girl who tries to be so cute and air-headed it's annoying; Irvine, the cliched ladies' man that can't get the ladies; and last but not least, Rinoa - who finally gets Squall out of his thoughts of himself and into thoughts of her. I would have liked it more if the characters were mature teenagers rather than your cliched self-absorbed ones.

FF8 takes a stab at a rather unique combat system, which is great, but the problem is it doesn't work very well. You don't get money or weapons the traditional way. The money part is pretty neat. You earn a weekly paycheck through employment with SeeD, and you earn more money by being promoted to a higher rank. The weapons part is a problem, however. The only way to earn stronger weapons is by taking material to junk shops and having it made into a weapon. The problem is the game doesn't give you these items very easily. You can only retrieve these items by fighting monsters that have what you need. Problem is, you can't know what monsters have which items unless you glue yourself to a strategy guide. For those who want to play the game without a guide, or those who don't want to spend their time fighting monsters and hoping they'll drop the item you need, you'll probably finish the game still equipped with the game's weakest weapons.

Not upgrading your weapons means you'll only do minimal damage with them, so you will want to look to other sources of damage. There is magic, but magic doesn't operate on MP and is limited. It's more like a usable item, and the only way to get higher quantities of said items is by drawing it from enemies. Plus, if you junction certain spells to your characters, you most likely don't want to use those spells in combat. That leaves the Guardian Forces. These summons can do a lot of damage, and while you are waiting for them to be summoned, they protect the summoner from attacks. The GFs will carry you through the game, though they have the drawback of having to sit through sometimes lengthy summon sequences every battle. Making matters worse is the experience system. Every 1000 experience points earns your character a level, but the worst part is that enemies grow levels with you. This wouldn't be so bad, but it means random battles last longer than they should. Random battles tend to be tedious as they are, so it's awful when a game adds to that tedium.first off i am still glad i bought this gameboy! i love it. However i wish it didn't come with so many scrathces and also it had left over sticker residue on the battery cover. It could have arrived in a better shape. also the volume knob might have a short because when i plug in my headphones into the system and i mess with the volume it fades from left to right ear with an annoying sound. Its a minor detail though. also the speaker is not very loud at all, like its super quite. not sure if its because of my batteries and i just need to replace them. I still love it thought! great color! feels great in your hands. off to go save Zelda!The improvements of the graphics are very good, quake engines are always constructed well in sounds and graphics, being a reason of buying a new graphic card most of the time.  But this time, in terms of playability, it wasn't quite a succes for Quake.  I don't have any complaints about the lack of the single player mode, I play quake multiplayer most of the time.  Bots are ok, if you want to play in single.  The problem is quake 3 turns out to be a game that rookies have more advantage.  It is easier to frag than quake and quake II, and I don't get the same quake pleasure I used to get.  It is not a bad game.  Even a good one for somebody new to multiplayer first person shooters, but for an experienced player, it is a disillusionment.  I'll continue to play quake2 and counterstrike, but when I'm in need of some more blood, it is still a good game.This game was kind of disappointing. I am not sure if it was the story line or the characters themselves that did or did not do it for me. Aside from the beautiful cut scenes and graphics this game left me feeling sort of aching to play a good rpg. Which is sad because this is a Final Fantasy game and I should not feel like that after having playing it.I have to admit I've been a bit of an Unreal fan in the Quake/Unreal debate over the years. Sinlge player wise, mulitplayer and engine. I prefered Unreal to Quake 2 single player but liked Unreals bright graphics  better. Quake II Multiplayer was the nuts!
When Quake 3 came out I found  I had played the Unreal Tournement Demo more when I first got that!  It  doesn't detract from a great game but any game I can complete in one  evening (on level 3), leaving me wondering if I can be bothered to do it  all again on a higer level, doesn't warrant a classic game for me.
The  engine is the best ever and the bots are gorgeous as is the level design.  It just lacks the cutting edge that UT has and I'm still playing that now.  I do go back to Quake 3 to make a change to UT but having completed it in  one evening I really cant be asked to go all the way back and do it on a  harder setting - The lastability just isn't there. Still a great game  though - just not as good as Unreal tournement (demo!) HA!I admit that I was one of those nailbiters waiting eargerly for Q3 to be released. When I got it running, I was more than a little unhappy with the single player mode. It is completely different than what you got from Q1  and Q2. In single player mode, you fight in.. well.. simulated deathmatches  with computer bots. Now, when I read this on the back I thought 'Gee.. What  a great idea.' Unfortunately, most of the bots act like what they are:  Computers. The scripting on these things is way too linear. Not to mention  that the difficulty settings are completely out of whack. The second to  hardest (hardcore) is almost impossible, even for a seasoned deathmatcher,  while the nightmare setting is absolutely impossible. My final complaint is  this. Why am I holding the same double barrel shotgun and rocket launcher  from all the other quakes? The game offers only 2 new weapons.. which is  sad.
Now, There are positive aspects of the game. The fun-factor of a 8  player human deathmatch is unbeatable. If you have the means to play in one  of these with Q3 you can expect all the fun as from the previous versions..  Of course, you will need a fast internet connection or a local area network  to do this.
All in all, Quake3 was.. Ok. It saddend and disappointed me  that the loss of a storyline did not produce life-like and enjoyable bots  in single player. However, mulitplayer is still a riot. You want a good  single player first person shooter? Get Soldier of fortune.. You will not  me disappointed.This review will be cut very short. the graphics are good...very good...but not many graphics cards can handle it on middle graphics resolutions. Gameplay is OK. It gets boring after a while. Basiclly this  game was over hyped, and you'll need one heck of an internet connection to  run this game smoothly online. Don't expect this game to hold your  attention for a long period of time.The graphics on Q3 seems to be slightly (reads very, very slightly; asymptotically so) superior than UT, but that is where the positive comparisons for Q3 stops.  UT's map is a lot more creative (including such  settings as a moving train, underwater base, and an old wooden ship), and  the variety of options other than deathmatch (capture the flag, assult,  etc.) puts Q3 to shame.  Other than the nice upgrade in sound and graphics,  Q3 is just same ole.
If you appreciate long lasting playability and can  only buy one game in this genre, UT, I submitt, should be your choice.I'm not going to go too in-depth as it has been done to death already - just giving my two cents as I recently decided to play my huge backlog of RPG games.

To the good:
As an avid rpg player, I found that the most important part of the genre is the story, and this game does not disappoint. The whole piece is a cinematic love story with various plot twists to make it interesting to find out what happens next. The graphics were beyond phenomenal for its time and has hold up pretty well over the ages due to its pre-rendered back grounds. The CG as most reviews have said, are a work of art. Music are up to the veteran composer's standards and the new Junction system is an interesting departure from the norm.

To the bad:
The only thing about this game IS the story. There is nothing to "Role-Play" in this game. None of the choices I make have any lasting decisions and I am just left pressing the okay button to literally tens of minutes (if not more) of dialogue and in-game cut-scenes (which are admittedly gorgeous) before the next few random battle/boss battle only to repeat it over and over again - I am not kidding about this either - let me interact and play! It's called a "game" not a "book". You also can't really explore the world until late in the game, every area is off-limits until the appropriate time it's introduced. You can't modify your equipment as readily as you were able to in previous games and there is little point to the weapons themselves as the entire battle system seems to revolve around the Junction/GF system (Unless of course, you're doing limit breaks). Magic too is not as effective as the GF system - which is another fault on its on:

  As beautiful as it is to see these gargantuans of magic come to life to slay my enemies, each summoning takes around 30secs, and there is no turning off this animation - the worse part is that the amount of damage they do does not correlate in any way to the amount of time it takes to summon them. This means that every random battle (and there are a LOT until you learn the appropriate skills) takes about some amount of time to finish just due to the summoning animation.

I had some high hopes for this game as I really enjoyed the preceding games in this series - overall, it's not a BAD game as some would suggest, but it's nowhere as addicting or fun as it could've been.After playing the full version of QIII and the Demo of Unreal Tournament, I would have to say that there are many areas of GT's Blockbuster Multiplayer game that beat the heck outta Quake III.
  Graphics:  Quake III requires a powerhouse computer to milk out the graphics pictured  on the outside of your box.  Unless you have a PIII or 450 or higher PII  with a good Riva TNT 2 Ultra board or better, don't expect much.  UT was so  much better graphically on my 350 PII than Quake III, not to mention that  the level layout in UT is awesome.
  The Game:  Single player in QIII  is both nonexistant and totally horrid. This, for activision's standards,  could have been so much better, and as for multiplayer, Quake III has but  one option...deathmatch.  UT has much better options and a large variety of  game types other than deathmatch (i.e. capture the flag, domination, team  deathmatch).
  My Opinion:  I gave this a 3 stars because although  Quake does have some nice touches like character skins, awesome weapons,  nice sound effects and textures, and other things here and there...There  are just too many things that are wrong about this game, when compared to  UT, to rate it any higher.  The single player, the multiplayer, the  interface, the levels, and many other areas of UT, even just from what I  saw in the Demo of UT, are much better laid out.
  The Good:  Lives up  to the Quake rep.
  The Bad:  Very little Replay, Hardware Reqs too  high
  Recommendation:  If your computer is NextGen and you love the  Quake series for the Multiplayer, then you'll enjoy this game.  If you're  looking for a good quality game with high replay value and awesome  gameplay, For the love of god stay away from QIII and get Unreal  Tournament.  Save yourself the Agony!  GET UNREAL TOURNAMENT...Enjoy!Final Fantasy VIII was a beautiful game for the first Playstation. It has likeable characters and a good storyline, by video game standards. The thing is, the battle system is terrible. It's not fun to play (which is the whole point of video games), and the Guardian Forces (summoned monsters) scenes are cool the first few times, but take forever and can't be skipped.

Is realistic to expect Square/Enix to remake the title with a different battle system? Something more akin to FF X?Finally, they're getting Star Trek right. This is a thoroughly enjoyable  game, with incredible graphics and wonderful (if not always engrossing)  sound. There are a number of significant, but not crippling, flaws which  mar an otherwise great game, but for Trekkies and sci-fi sim fans, this is  definitely a game to get.
The gameplay here is solid and easy to  understand. The designers understand that you're flying a capital ship, not  a snub fighter, and the physics reflect that through lethargic turns and  gradual accel/decel curves. Even though this may sound like it would lead  to slow and boring gameplay, it's anything but. The tension builds and I've  found myself squirming, trying to get my targets lined up for that perfect  shot--a great feeling of satisifaction when I succeed.
The controls are  easy to understand, but slightly cumbersome to use. Though innovate, the  VOS (Voice Order System) takes too long to utilize during the middle of the  battle. VOS relies on the use of the keypad to issue orders and to  distribute power to the ships various systems, and between maneuvering your  behemoth mass of destructive power, and then using that power to blast your  enemies, you just don't have a third hand to play with shields, weapon  charge rates, damage control, and countless other things. Hotkeys are  available, scattered through the keyboard, but they are far from intuitive  and too numerous to quickly memorize.
The designers tried to compensate  by creating Power Macros, and it's a great move. Using the F1-F8 keys, and  a control board under the Engineers screen, you can define preset levels  for all of your ships systems based on the tactics you plan to employ.  Which is fantastic... if the battle goes the way you plan. Still, the Power  Macros enable the player to quickly redistribute power during the middle of  battle, a vital necessity, but one that looses the need to quickly change  small details (like overcharging weapons after you've made your approach  under cloak for a devastating first strike.)
The graphics are incredible,  with fantastic debris fields and damage representation. Blast a photon  torpedo into the enemies hull and see the flames consume the decks. The  movies are equally well done, but are prone to stuttering (you'd think  they'd have this problem fixed by now.) Yet when the movies do stutter, you  don't loose any of the lines, it just keeps repeating until moving out of  the trap.
The sound is well done, with quality music and a delightful  environmental background during battles, but will occasionally cut out  without reason. Other reviewers have had this problem as well, and it just  seems to be a problem in need of patching, as reducing the demands on the  soundcard make no difference.
The game has also caused the system to  freeze up on occasion, and blue screens on exiting are common. All of these  bugs are typical of Interplay productions, in my experience, and I got  Klingon Academy expecting them to be there in one form or another. And,  ironically enough, that's testimony to how good this game is. Despite these  problems, it's a great game, and the gameplay isn't seriously affected by  these problems.
In summary, there's nothing particularly revolutionary  about this game except the fact that they finally got the Star Trek genre  right. There's a great feel to the game, and a good plot line to carry you  through it. The gameplay is solid and easy to understand, if a little  cumbersome during the middle of battle. And the bugs in the most basic of  program functionality (ala Interplay's legacy) are really unfortunate as  they add frustration to what is otherwise a great experience--I'd have  given 4 stars if it weren't for these.
(I'm running on a Pent III 800  Coppermine with 128M RAM at 100Mhz with a Viper V770 32M and SoundBlaster  Live! Value.)Ummmm where do I start yeah this game isn't that great how everyone loves ff7 and ff8 and you know what those two in my opinion there not that great there really boring so I mean if you like ff then try it out I bought it many years ago and I still haven't finished itI picked up this title, a good ways back. It was a Final Fantasy I had played when it was new and then lost access to. So, being somewhat of a game collector (my series of choice to collect is Final Fantasy and Armored Core) I picked up this one pretty cheap on amazon. The gameplay itself is pretty much standard fair, of when JRPGs or Final Fantasy's were still you know. Good. I'm sorry, I can't stand in any way shape or form the horrible ATB system that Square seems to have such a hard on for in their semi turn based gameplay. I couldn't stand it in X, was even worse in X-2. (I can't call it "10, 2" It's degrading) and guess what horrible thing they are including in 13? Yep you guessed it.

Twelve gets a reprieve from this sentence because of the Gambit System and the fact that unlike 7, 10, and X-2 it actually has a plot worth mentioning. But I will get back on target now.

My biggest problem with Eight, is it has a large slew of Happy coincidence that would make even Charles Dickens cry. I mean seriously, damn.  Squall being well...Squall... ugh. Why couldn't this game be about Laguna instead? *head desk.. head goes through desk* Squall continues the paradigm set by Cloud, in that they have to stick the worst or one of the worst characters in the game, as the main character. Because the guy that makes the 7+ (Tactics, IX and XII aside) can't write good characters up as protagonists to save his life. I hate, squall. Really hate Squall. Almost as much as Selphie.. No scratch that.. more than Selfie.

Unfortunately as Squall is a core component of the game he drags down what could have been a good story down to mediocre. Every other character in this game is far better than he is in terms of character development. The plot itself is standard fanfare of a group of mercs, end up fighting some evil big bad thing bent on world domination/destroying the world (I'm trying not to spoil things here), and discover their significance in the greater scheme of things as the story progresses.

So they have a solid working core for the story, and the secondary characters stories are fairly well constructed.... but Squall... again rears up his head and smites the story down from any high heights this solid foundation can achieve. Just like Cloud.

The battle system can be turned into turn based combat (which given that there are no AI scripts for Allies, is a very good thing), thankfully. But there are hints of cracks in the franchise's integrity that appear in this game.

I think personally these cracks were evident in 7 in abundance but the majority of gamers were too busy doing naughty things to themselves over 3-D graphics to notice. 8's coming out did not receive the fan fare because by the time it came out Gamers were used to 3-D. These cracks become larger as the series progresses. At first of course it's the little things _like those Dickens Coincidences) and a poor main character... Later it becomes things like basic premise and story. All in the trade off for shinier and shinier graphics. And of course stupid gamers buy more and more into this.

My biggest beef with 8 is that reviewing it Four Games Down Later, that honestly you can see the start of Square's fall with it. And that fall started when they let go of the original Final Fantasy creator.

Eight should however be cherished though, as it in my mind is one of a dying breed. Good JRPGS. JRPGS in general need to smack themselves silly and ditch the TROPES they have been running with for umpteen years, Japan is quickly losing relevance on the stage of the gaming world, because quite frankly American and European Rpgs decided "you know what? let's make a good story, rock solid characters, and an enjoyable non turn based experience" And you know what? You can't argue with the results. I doubt anyone would disagree with me when I say this. Mass Effect and KOTOR are some of the best rps ever. Fable II easily blows the post 6 FF series out of the water.

So don't hate on Eight. Hate on it's maker. There is alot of gold left in 8 to be enjoyed all of these years later. There's still rock solid gameplay, a good enough to get the job done story (Damn you Squall damn you), and even better it's cheaper than the modern JRPGS to pick up.Label was torn on my cartridge, but they're all different. Came in a manilla envelope.

Game is 10/10The game is alright but they made a huge mistake on how you use spells.  I would much rather have mp than limited times to cast a spell.It's decent but probably the worst in the series. The level design is very poor and I dislike most of the characters. I'd recommend any other Twisted Metal besides this one.The Ultima Collection include what could possibly be the best RPG games of all time. UC includes all of the Ultima titles from Akalabeth (the game the Ultima series was based on) to Ultima VIII.
In order to run these games, you literally have to be a computer expert.  You have to run these games from the DOS prompt. Before you get to play any of these games, you have to fix a lot of settings which an average computer user would have no idea how to set them up, or even what they mean (I'm still trying to find out what an "IRQ" is.) Also, many of the new computers do not have a PC Speaker, which all of the games require to play any sound effects and music.
By the way, do not expect Ultima I: Exodus to look anything like its NES counterpart.  In Ultima I through IV, graphics are very poorly defined; everything consists of plain colored squares.
If you can actually manage to setup and execute the programs smoothly, then have at this game.  Otherwise, I would recommend playing the NES and SNES Ultima titles.A great RPG but it doesnt play anything like the rest of the Final Fantasy franchise.I have had problems with not only the Ultima 7's but EXODUS and Ultima 2 as well.  They barely work on my computer and are a mess to start or deal with so I don't play them.  As for 7 and serpent Isle, these were very good games even graphic wise but now that my old SBPro card has been damaged I can't play them despite the fact that I have a SBLive.  I warn you, there are NO cards that use ISA slots(required for these games) You can't buy them, you can't special order them, and half the "tech-heads" I talk to don't even know what they are! You'd better have a good ISA card if you want to buy this product. Or Roland Daughterboard which cannot be purchased anywhere these days.I recommend buying this because it's a compilation, and it's worth it to get all those games.  It's even cooler because it has video interviews with the creator of the games, and I like to see stuff like that.
There's  only one real downside about the games.  If you want to play Ultima VII  (both parts) you can't be running an Expanded Memory Manager and some sound  cards require Expanded Memory Managers to work so on some systems (mine  included) you cannot have sound in the game.  The audio in the rest of the  games work fine.As most already know twisted metal is a car combat game collect weapons and destroy your enemies as you drive pretty simple idea that can definitely be fun....

Summary:(Read Below if you wanted More Info)
1= Very good
2=Great!
3= HIt or Miss with the more realistic physics
4= HIt or Miss Imo due to the character design styled more like 1 & 2 than 3
Black=First and Best PS2 Twisted Metal Arguably the best Twisted Metal of All
Head On=Good Gameplay Online Mode included (psp and ps2) Spiritual Sequel to Twisted Metal 2
Twisted Metal (2012 for PS3)=Didnt play this one but heard it was good

Twisted Metal: A great game, revolutionary for video games of the first 3d era. Still a fun game and the only twisted metal with the inside the car view no saving to memory cards there was a short code for resuming your game later.

Twisted Metal 2: Most fans will consider this to be the best twisted metal of all the final release with single track after this one the game changes its physics dramatically...

Twisted Metal 3: In this installment twisted goes for a much more realistic driving feel for the cars. Now this isn't necessarily a bad thing but to most fans it just wasn't as fun. This was 989 studios first attempt to make a twisted metal game and fans trying out twisted metal for the first time tend to be the only fans that like 3 the best. However a few of the early twisted metal fans like 3 better but the game play turned off a large percentage of fans so this one is hit or miss try it you might like it best or you might not like it at all.  In the end 989 failure to appeal to a large amount of the fans of the franchise put twisted metals popularity into a downward spiral.

Twisted Metal 4: This game still made by 989 studios and after twisted metal 3 alot of the people who would of liked this game were no longer interested in twisted metal this one goes back gameplay designed to be fast and fun.  I would say compared to 1 and 2 the default characters you can chose from are less interesting and useful however you can create your own cars.  I think it was this that makes or breaks the game if you found a car you enjoyed playing you would probably like twisted metal 4 if not then your likely to turn away from it and say its a bad game.  This game attempted to incorporate features that would make hands down the best twisted metal and to some it was.  This is the last twisted metal game for the playstation 1.

Twisted Metal Black: First Playstation 2 release and back in the hands of the original creators who reformed under the name Incognito entertainment.  Best Graphics easily so far and better than even the game to come after and gameplay thats arguably just or good or better than any of the other games.  With nearly as many features as 4 including the first twisted metal game that was online capable(with a special disc not all copies could do that and official servers are shut down now)  this game is considered the best by playstation 2 fans and many fans of the twisted metal series.

Twisted Metal Head On: This is the spirtual sequel to twisted metal 2 its graphics and gameplay feel like they derived from number 2 however i would not say gameplay is quite as good as number 2 it does have all new stages and solid gameplay with new upgrade system after you kill an opponent you can collect a drop from them to increase your fire power this could be considered better or worse.Rayman 2 is a decent game.  I bought this game mostly for my younger brother, but ended up playing it a lot myself, remembering the first Rayman game I had on PC a few years earlier.
The graphics on this game are some of the best suited for the N64.  There are other games, with better graphics, but those are games like Perfect Dark, which has realistic characters that under 64 bit graphics still look choppy and somewhat ugly compared to the newer consoles.  Rayman 2's graphics are cartoonish in nature, so the lower quality display does not effect them too much, therefore the game wouldn't look all that much better on the PS2 or Gamecube.
The one thing that I did have a problem with in this game was the camera!  The camera usually places itself dirrectly behind the character, but seems to have a mind of it's own 75% of the time.  And although you can control it to an extent, it always snaps back to the over the shoulder view once you start moving again.
All in all a good game, both for younger gamers, and older gamers who just want to goof off and have a little fun.To start out, Rayman is this unique character, who has cool powers which he gains along his adventure to save his frog friend Globbox who is being held captive by pirates. It is a Mario type game with tougher bad guys and Rayman can throw balls of light at everyone. This game takes you to a whole new 3D world with a few dozens of levels, each huge and challenging. The challenges are full of puzzles, traps and monsters. It is a good game to improve problem-solving abilities. Despite the challenge they are all fun challenges that differ from level to level. Such as one level, you must fly through a tremendous lava tube, another you must ride a rocket through a twisting and turning pirate ship. Fun for younger ages and it will take about six months to beat. You may want to rent it before you buy it, but when you rent it you will be hooked.Although I should probably first say the disc its self was in perfect condition I was not satisfied.  The picture led me to believe I would get the game disc case and manual.  All i received was the disc.  maybe I assumed to much and should have read the description better but the picture its self was misleading.  read the fine print with this seller.Final Fantasy VIII - Circa 1998

GOOD:

- Considered a pretty good PS1 RPG by many people

- Famed "Liberi Fatali" song/intro, as well as other pretty cool CG movies between gameplay

BAD:

- Graphics are pretty dated

- Game play may feel a little dated

- Not considered as classic to many as Final Fantasy VI, VII, or X

IF IT FITS YOUR TASTE:

- Turn based RPG

- No voice-overs, so there is lots of reading

- Card Battling as a mini game

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Final Fantasy VII

- Final Fantasy IX

- Legend of Dragoon

- Chrono Cross

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- There is a version for the P.C. as well

- Squall (the main character) makes a cameo in Kingdom Hearts, and calls himself Leon

- Note: all Final Fantasy are not related to one another, think of each Final Fantasy a it's own game not connect in any real/true way to another Final Fantasy, the only exception is Final Fantasy X-2 which is a sequel to Final Fantasy XA lot of elements in FFVIII are pretty creative.  The storyline, as in most FF games, is award-winning good.  The graphics are good for its time, and the customizing system (Junctioning) is really innovative and simple to use.  Music is really nice also, as well as the sound.  But still, not among Square's best Final Fantasy games.  This game tends to be almost too easy through the story, but getting some things is really hard (e.g. getting Malboro Tentacles for Doomtrain.  I really hate Malboros!!!).  Also, junctioning makes the game even easier than it normally is, which makes it less and less fun to play, and the card game is addicting, but silly.  But nevertheless a good game.This Game Boy Color light does a good job of magnifying the screen and lighting up the dark. But the thing is, the batteries run out too fast, and the light keeps getting dimmer the more the battery runs out making it useless about halfway through. The screen also smudges a little too easily. It's a good item to have for night travel, just make sure you have a fresh pair of AAA batteries.I bought this together with Final Fantasy VII, and when I played VIII, I was somewhat displeased with it.
  Let me start by saying that the graphics for this game are the BEST you'll find out there for the Playstation game console; the cutscenes almost seem real.
  Now, the disadvantages:  Tutorials make the game extremely boring.  Towards the beginning of the game, some lady teaches you something about "junctions" for a half an hour, and I couldn't remember any of it afterwards.  There is also no plot.  You seemingly walk around different towns and fight random bosses that have nothing to do whatsoever with the actual story, if there was any.
  So, I recommend that you try other Final Fantasy games first, like IX and VII (those are excellent ones).  If you can't help yourself, rent this one and see if you like it or not.okay first of all, this game like any other final fantasy is different from each other which is good but you have got to know how  to divide yourself from your predecessor. This game was very good on certain standards but i Expected more. I have played every final fantasy and this one is in between the good final fantasy and the bad final fantasy. I liked this game and in fact i own this game but i was dissapointed. Overall, it is a game to check out.this game is just ok i would not say great, but i wouldnt say its bad. they sort of destroyed the game by trying to make it more like ff7, but its ok.Ah yes, this is my Final Fantasy VII Review.  Those that have seen my review for FFIX and FFVII, know how I revere the Sixth game in the series.  Which, apparently, most of you have never played.  Having stated my reasons of reverance in my FFVII and FFIX reviews, Ill review VIII on its own merits this time around.
First, This game quite possibly has the most stirring and excellent FMV of any playstation game I have witnessed.  epic battles, grand dance numbers, moments of comedy, personal trauma, Action, and despair, are all rendered through CG and look throughly Excellent.  The in game graphics are remarkable as well.  Created too show a realistic, sci fi other world feel.  Space ships, sleepy meadows, and fierce monsters all look remarkable even without the looping FMV.  A true breakthrough for square.
Gameplay, This is where the game Falls Flat.  First of all... the juction system was creative and dynamic... yet flawed immensely.  Do you mean too tell me my characters cant use a potion unless they have a GF junctioned too them that ALLOWS them too use a potion?  That sounds like a little thing, but represents just how little thought was given too the junction system when creating it.  Its almost as if square wanted too make a system so complex and intricate... that they forgot tradition and past gameplay staples.  Then theres the summon animations.  Okay, Shiva looks cool the first ten times you summon her, the twentieth is repetitive, and the 100th, while watching the same minute long animation before you can actually play the game, is just not fun.  Then We have the DRAW system.  Yah, we can cheat and draw 100 spells from a weak monster.  But youll have too do it 40-80 times, per character, per spell.  which gets old.  REAL OLD!  REAL FAST!!!
The music helps too redeem the game.  While Uematsu sat on the Bench entirely in this game, much of the music that is here is well composed, and fitting.  But only the ending vocal track is a piece of music Id want too listen too over and over again.  The Rest of the music, despite being very fitting for the game, just doesnt have the staying power too warrent a non fanboy like myself too buy the game.
Lastly, The story is probably the most personal, tender, complex, and emotional tale of love that square has ever written.  Layer by layer, squall is peeled back as he finds himself leading his comrades, falling in love, and facing his nemesis.  Its the love story that eventually develops Squall the most.  And is the main crux of the game.  Other elements, like the time warping, are very well played and scripted.  Laguana's goofy yet charming shinnanegans are a perfect foil too Squall's Poker face and indifferance.  But its the supporting cast that seems too fall flat in terms of development.  We have one character in which the plot points out that he was a mama's boy as a child, but grew up too be a martial artist.  he still cares for his widow'd mother, and has a secret admirer.  But the game doesnt let you explore either of these relationships besides pointing them out too you.  This is Standrad practice for the other supporting cast as well.  Its sad that a character from laguana's past, who is in the game for a total of ten minutes, is a more well developed person then the remaining characters in your party.  Character related subquests are even Scarcer in FFVIII then in VII.  Which Was weaker in comparison with its predacessor.  Shame, since its really the story and characters that make an RPG TRULY memorable.
Too wrap up this review, I did like the personnal and tenderness in FFVIII's Story.  It was a nice change of place from the *I SHOULD SAVE THE WORLD* Tone of most RPG's.  In FFVIII, you do indeed save the world... after you grow up and learn a bit about love and maturity that is.  And the ending is the most tender and heartfelt Since FFVI.
Im glad that Square learned all that it did From FFVII and FFVIII.  For the ninth game, and onward, they didn't have too prove thier technical wizardry any further.  Safe and secure in thier mastery of technology after this game, Square has since gone back too focusing on Story and Gameplay, which are what matter the most.  Final Fantasy VIII is the best MOVIE on the playstation 1, but Final Fantasy IX is the best GAME and STORY.  and is Far more reccommended provided you WANT a story, and not an interactive movie too drool over.  If that is all you desire, stick with FFVIII Until you come too appreciate that Video games are too be PLAYED and too CHALLENGE you, not too Give you pretty pictures.Everyone kept telling me that this one was the best FF ever. Well, I disagree. I actively disliked most of the characters. The goals are not well explained, nor the means to achieving those goals. The Graphics are only good when compared to earlier installments in the saga. The sound is terrible. I couldn't get into the storyline. I was fairly irritated by how long the game took to get into anything like gameplay. If I wanted a tutorial, couldn't I have asked instead of being forcefed every 3 steps? I'm going to try to struggle through the rest of the game, but for my money, you'd do better with IX or X.After playing Final Fantasy VII(perhas the greatest game known to man), I was impatiently waitng for Final Fantasy VIII. When I finally got my hands on it, I had a big smile.  It was going good in the first disc, second disc, it started to go into a slump, the 3rd, and 4th disc were straight out boring.  It pissed me off when I had to fight bosses just to break Ultimacia's seal, that was dumb.
Story:
Well, you are seed, destroying monsters is your business, then they run into a sorceress who's trying to destroy the world with time compression.  THat's why she's trying to find Ellonie.  But why does she want to destry the world, that's the dumb part.  I mean come on, someone's gotta have a reason to destroy the world, Sephroth had a reason to desrty the world(Sephroth thought the human race was stealing the planet from the cetra(his race).  So to cease the humans exsistance, he was going to destry the world).  Kuja had a reason to desrty the world(Kuja was created to be evil, but he knew that the old dude created him, so that by the time Zidane got stronger than him, he would die, so he seaked the crystal and tried to desroy it, and take the world along with him), but no Sorceress Ultimacia had no reason to destroy the world.  (Hmph, nice storyline)
Characters:
This was sad: When Square made Final Fantasy VII had you emotionally attatched to the characters, in Final Fantasy VIII they made characters that you would want to forget forever:
Squall is a lone-wolf ... and a 18 year old loser(So don't call him Cloud); Rhinoa has a the face but everything else...NO(So don't call her Tifa); Zell whines to much, and goes on about dumb stuff(So don't call hin Cid); Seifer is a pitiful Mr. I wanna be the sorceress' night wuss(So don't call him a 50% version of sephroth); Irvine is a sharpshooter that's trying to act cool, but he ain't(So don't call him Vincint); Quitis is trying, but can't fill in a good love triangle at all(So don't call her Aries); Selphie, is just annoying, and she just isn't strong(So don't call her Yuffie); Laguna, is a real good character(He shoulda been the hero instead of Squall, a loser); Kiros has some pretty wicked blades, and woulda been a great replacement for Zell; Ward is big dude, but he ain't no, I'm-gonna-bust-you-up character(So don't call him Barret).  I only praised 2 characters outta that bunch(Laguna, and Kiros).  That's pretty sad.
Graphics:
The game's only high point.  The PSX never seen anything as good as this.  While the gameplay grahics are very well done,the FMV's get tha cake.  I never saw anything so freaking real.  So if you only buy games for graphics, this will be your first choice for the PSX(But FFX punched it out by a long mile)
Sound:
Pretty good sound effects and music.  I like the boss fights music.  At time to time, it makes you wanna say, bring da ruckus from time to time.  That's only the second thing that capitalized on Final Fnatasy VII
Gameplay:
Well, here's the biggest downfall of the whole game.  It was like they were master... while making the junction system.  Because it's a real pain.  No mp, like when you have a good majic spell for strenght, and you wanna use it, you lose strengh as well(Same for everything else).  The GF's are annoying, they take a while to work, and they take damage for you, but when they die, waht are you gonna use then?  And why are you stuck with something like poison, even after a battle.  That was very annoying.  And when you have limit breaks, you have to stay with low hp(you'll eventually die) or use aruas(which willrun out, and are hard t find).  Charging was easier.  This really hurt the game.
Replay value:
Heck, anyone who finished this game, had to win medals, cuz, I felt like dying just trying to beat.  Breaking the seals was the biggest pain I had.  I had to fight bosses without Limit Breaks, which was dumb.  I was about the quit, but I kept going, and somehow did it.  Then when I went agenst Ultimacia, she chose my first 3 characters, which was BS.  I mean, when she finaly picked my 3 main characters, Squall, Irvine, and Zell, it was a lucky shot, so I took it(After losing 4 painful times).  I kept Squall, and Irvine's hp low, so I can do the Renzicuken, and fire Paulse ammo.  Hell's judgment, and the biggest thorn in my side, but thanks to the bahamut card, I traded that for 100 megalixers, and ended up deafeting her.  It was a fluke.  Then I never played the game again, so as for me, so much for replay value.
Overall:
This game had to be one of biggest dissapoinment in history.  The only reason I gave it a three, is beacause it had a good ending, unlike Final fantasy VII which showed what happed 500 years later in the other ending.  This game was boring, and lacked anything of the final Fantasy name.  If you are a die-hard, hardcore FInal Fantasy Fan, the you probobly got this, but if you want to start playing the saga, for god's sake start with Final Fantasy VII.Out of all the Final Fantasys of this generation, I enjoyed this one the least.  I had a feeling of blandness when I played it.  The main character was very bland as well. Still, it was good enough to play through to the end, but that's about it.In the interview from Eidos prior to The Last Revelation release, fans were promised a game 1) that returns to TR roots, 2) is puzzle based, and 3) Lara's objectives would always be clear (probably in response to all the  complaints received over TRIII).  Eidos also promised that Lara wouldn't  have to run around so much to find objects and that the emphasis on bad  guys would be downplayed.  Put simply, TLR would be a return, in sorts, to  the original Tomb Raider.
Using the Eidos interview as basis, let's look  at their claims.  First, yes, TLR does a nice job returning to TR's roots,  at least in terms of atmoshpere and looks.  That's my number one praise.  But in terms of gameplay, TLR is far from puzzle-based.  It starts out so,  but about halfway through the designers decided to return to the convoluted  ploys that plagued TRIII.  And, having just finished TLR, I'd say that  Lara's objectives are far from clear.  There are still a lot of thugs to  kill off and Lara does an awful lot of running across multiple screens to  obtain objects. (there aren't really levels in TLR; Lara passes from one  area to another--with a download time in between!)
I think the biggest  problem is that the designers simply ran out of great puzzle ideas (which  occurred sometime after TRII) where you actually have to use some logic and  your brain.  This is what made TR1 so fantastic: you knew that if you sat  in front of the screen long enough, you'd eventually figure out whatever  challenge TRI threw at you.  TLR however, beginning with the Cairo section,  becomes frustrating because it stops being puzzle based, and to make up for  this lack of puzzles, resorts to annoyingly complicated, nit-picky,  non-logic based ploys to make the game more "challenging" (and,  thus, ensure more sales of their strategy guide).  I've never had to use a  forum/walkthrough site so often in my life.  Let me make my point as clear  as possible: puzzles require brain power and logic.  Trial and error is NOT  equal to good gaming and is NOT fun.  I seriously doubt that there are many  gamers out there who made it through the entire Cairo sequence without the  aid of a walkthru.  This could have been a great game (and it was for the  first half)  The graphics in TLR are outstanding, and the Desert Railroad  level is innovative and fun.  Sadly, though, this game was ruined by  ridiculously complex, illogical levels that surrogate for a lack of puzzle  ideas.As I've said in other reviews of this series, the first one is the best.  It wasn't needlessly difficult, and the puzzles made sense.
I just played through the first few areas of the last revelation, and to my  disgust eidos has not fixed the problems that first appeared in tomb raider  two and became rampant in tomb raider three.
puzzles are okay, PUZZLES IN  WHICH YOU CANNOT FIGURE OUT WHAT YOU NEED TO DO, OR CANNOT FIND OBSCURE  ITEMS BECAUSE YOUR BRIGHTNESS IS TOO LOW, OR THE ITEMS AREN'T LOGICALLY  CONNECTED TO THE PROBLEM AT HAND ARE NOT OKAY.
the series still looks  great, but frustrating backtracks and endless wandering looking for the  hidden button have consistently robbed this series of the splendor we saw  in the first incarnation.  Remember just wandering through the lost valley  or jumping into the waterfall over and over again?  If that level was  redesigned under the current standards, you would have to endlessly reload  the game because the waterfall kills you and you have to hit a button on  the way down which you don't know is there and can't see so that a door  half a mile away opens up.  And there's no reason to think a button a will  even open the door.
I refuse to play a game with a hint guide on my lap.  Guns and ammo are way too hard to find otherwise.  I gave this game one  more shot at recapturing my interest in the series.  I guess I'm done with  Lara, which is a shame because I've really loved the series.There's a lot to like about Final Fantasy VIII coming out of the experience of FF7, but there's also some things not to like. I admired the more realistic and correctly-proportioned characters in the game, but disliked the final battles and the preparations needed to have some chance at the final conflict.
All RPGs tend to have super bosses and lengthy final battles, but the story itself wasn't compelling enough to make me really want to care, or really curious, to bring the game to its conclusion. FF9 and FFX both have been a lot more compelling in this respect.Pharaoh is every positive thing mentioned by the other reviewers. I wouldn't argue with any of them. It is a great game: "great" in terms of magnitude and scope. But it fails to be "fun." It's one of those bizarre instances where a game is addictive and enthralling but also infuriatingly difficult. I've just spent eight hours on a particular mission only to have a glitch in the behavior of the bazaar traders wreck everything. A few more courses to go on the pyramid...oops, so sorry, start over. Unfortunately problems like these have been commonplace since I started my campaign. Even when things go smoothly, most missions require four to eight hours. I'm sorry, I can't spend my life building cyberspace pyramids. Pharaoh is definitely a case of "more is less."My very first Final Fantasy experience came from FF6(or FF3 in the State), and I loved every second of it.  What I must say, must say is that Final Fantasy series does separate itself from rest of RPGs out there with the excellent graphic, skillfully done music score, and last but not least, story line.
However, FF8 was something different from rest of FF series.  For couple hours, I thought it was good, then it became apparent eventually that the game doesn't live up to its legacy.  I easily stopped playing it because simply the magic it used to pull me in from FF series wasn't there anymore.  I didn't think the plot was something which i would go 'wow' nor characters were fresh visually for being realistic rather than super-deformed, but other than that there was nothing, nada.
Personally I love Dragon Warrior series.  It doesn't boast any graphic, nor has well plotted story lines of FF series, but Dragon Warrior does a really excellent job in game play balance.
The FF series was able to go head to head, shoulder to shoulder with ENIX because of their graphic, music, and storyline.  But this time, it was way out of its own league.  Graphic was good enough, music, however, didn't give that masterful feeling, and ultimately storyline was just,,,horrible.
It's a decent RPG.  However, I would consider it as a failure from FF's perspective.  I really did expect alot from FF8 since the main theme is love.  I really did anticipated alot...  Play this game when you have plenty of time to kill, no other game to play.I like all of the ff's but this is the worst ever!! I do like this game and the love story is great but no matter how hard you try when you get on disc 4 and beat the game all you can say is "wow...now wheres my ff7 disc?" get ff9 before this one...I made the mistake of installing this before I was finished with the original Roller Coaster Tycoon, and it replaced all the old scenarios with the Cork Screw Follies scenarios. I could not find a way to go back and play the old scenarios, so I had to start with these. That alone really upset me. I thought there might be new coasters and things to research for my existing scenarios, like other software companies did in their add-ons. Also, there's still no option to create your own open ended scenario.
Aside from eating my old games, Corkscrew Follies isn't bad.  It's nice to have new scenarios and things to do, and the game play didn't differ from the original. the graphics are still like the first, a little cartoony but still fairly good.
Overall this isn't a bad add-on, but I was sorely disappointed when it took away the original scenarios.In 1998 Twisted Metal 3 was released for PS1 the sequel to 1996's Twisted Metal 2 and the original Twisted Metal released in 1995. A new developer 989 Studios took over for SingleTrac who developed the first games in the series. This game uses a entirely new engine built from the ground up since it was a new developer working with the series. I have personally played this game and will say that its garbage and not even worth being mentioned as apart of TM series. The cars control bad plus the graphics look realistic like the first game rather than cartoonish like the second game. Its basically the same as TM2 where you travel around the world to places like Tokyo, London, Area 51, Egypt, Hollywood, just to name a few levels. A few characters from the previous games are in the game like Darkside, Hammerhead, Sweet Tooth, Thumper, Outlaw, Mr, Grim, Specter, Warthog, Minion, as well as new characters. The endings for the characters are really cheesy unlike TM2 which was pretty dark. The game also allows you to hook up a multi-tap to play with four other friends well three but four if you include yourself.Pharaoh is different, in the sense that the workers in the game tend to act randomly and can be hard to control. This game just never really clicked with me. Starcraft, Warcraft, Age of Empires, and Civilization were more enjoyable to me. But if you have played these to death give Pharaoh a try.We bought this after the Pokemon Go craze hit and we wanted to play the original red/blue games on our Gameboy.  Perhaps it is just because it is so old but it seemed to run out of batteries very quickly so we wanted a charger.  It does it's job but my complaint is that if it gets unplugged while playing your unit will turn off.  I had it happen a few times and I hadn't saved in a while which was frustrating.  If you are using this while playing save often!This game was alright but definately had more flaws. The other TM's are way better than this one. But this one wasn't that bad it was goodWell, this was the first in a series of disappointing games from SquareSoft released for Playstation (followed by SaGa Frontier 1 and 2, Chrono Cross, Legend of Mana, Vagrant Story...)  Don't get me wrong, even the poorer SquareSoft titles are a cut above most games, but compared to the innovation and quality of previous stories, Final Fantasy VIII really falls short.  The magic system is irritating at best, and the story isn't nearly as compelling as Final Fantasy 6, 7 or 9.  Worth playing, but not worth playing instead of FF9.If you've made it to this point in your life without playing a Twisted Metal game, that's all right, we'll explain it to you. The trilogy is probably best described as a vehicular version of Midway's Mortal Kombat or else a James Cameron's Terminator take on a demolition derby. In it, a horde of over-the-top characters compete against each other in cars and trucks armed with missiles, freeze rays, and other assorted weapons of destruction. This time out, there are a few new cars and weapons, and you have an option to have a computer-controlled ally aide you in the tournament, though he always seems to be the first one blown up in the fight. The biggest change to the series though is that its developer has changed from SingleTrac (who've started a new, but like-minded, auto-combat series under the moniker Rogue Trip for GT Interactive) to 989 Studios, a Sony-owned development studio. This affects the game on nearly every level. Graphically, the game appears much differently from the previous titles in the line, though it's not necessarily improved. There are various shading and lighting effects at work, but the end result is somehow grainy and washed out. The title's soundtrack, which is comprised of songs by Rob Zombie and Pitch Shifter, is very fitting, but the supporting sound effects are very weak. For example, the machine gun sounds like a cap pistol and driving through water inexplicably sounds pretty similar to that.
The game's much-touted new physics engine turns out pretty strange in function. The cars will now dip and roll upon collision, which sounds fantastic in theory, but in practice is fairly questionable since vehicles will often flip over after hitting a small curb or even a snowman. The collision detection is also highly suspect, as instances where you'll find yourself stuck on a ledge or halfway into a wall are frequent. It's very nice to have analog control this time, but the physics engine really works against it. The main downfall of Twisted Metal III though is its lackluster level design. Most of the stages are, if not modeled after, extremely reminiscent of levels from the first two games, and those that aren't are even more uninspired. The Washington level, for instance, is a long rectangular courtyard with a ramped area on one end and teleportation sphere (which sends vehicles to the ramped area) on the other. Snore.
In the two player modes, the default horizontal split-screen runs into the same problem found in SingleTrac's Rogue Trip. Since the levels are no longer as flat as in the previous TM games, having half you horizon cut away makes it hard to see in hilly or ramp-heavy levels. Fortunately, the designers had the foresight to include a wide variety of split-screen perspectives, such as a vertical cut and variations on a four-way split where the other two boxes are filled with radar, speedometer, and weapons info (these are the best since you view the world through a smaller version of the full screen). In the three- and four-player modes, the perspective is similarly cornered. Both appear to cut into the frame rate and increase the visible seams between surfaces, but not majorly. Multiple views aside though, the game is as much fun in multiplayer mode as it is in single player. As there, you'll be struck with the feelings of "Why am I here?" and "Why am I playing this" after a level or two. There are a few good ideas at work within Twisted Metal III (such as the multiple perspectives), but they're not nearly enough to counter the fact that improvements to the gameplay are pretty slight and the level design is a big step backwards, making the game a real lemon overall. If this is the direction the series is taking, it should probably stop right here. Take a look at Activision's Vigilante 8 or GT Interactive's Rogue Trip instead.This adapter is the right size, for the right gameboy, and is totally new, but there's one major flaw.... It's the WRONG color!!!! It's pink not purple! So it doesn't go with my gameboy color :(!I really did like this game while I owned it.  It's a nice attempt by Squaresoft, and I think this game really could have been a whole lot better than the way it turned out.  I give it 3 stars for its good aspects, and for the POTENTIAL it had.  Well, let's get started.
First, as anyone will notice, the graphics are excellent.  They are some of the best that the Playstation could possibly put out, from what I can see.  But, aside from that, everything else about the game gives me mixed feelings.
For one thing, there's the music.  Music is very important in an RPG because it sets the whole mood of the game and affects the mood of the player.  Unfortunately, there are not many quality songs in this game.  The battle music is somewhat blah and a bit overdramatic, and the music in towns seems a bit uninspired.  This is compounded by the fact that many tunes are repeatedly recycled.  "Eyes on Me" wasn't bad, but as far as songs of that type go, I think Marle's theme in Chrono Trigger was just a little bit better (that is, her fully orchestrated theme song, not just the little music box tune).  The worst song, though, by far, is the overworld map music.  It is so uninspired, irritating, and boring, and I know it could have been much better, considering the world map songs in previous Final Fantasy games, even the original on the NES.
Now, the storyline of this game is excellent.  There are enough twists here to satisfy those who like depth, and the story goes far beyond the simple "group of heroes out to save the world" plot--not that there's anything at all wrong with that plot, mind you.  Every RPG since the beginning of the genre has ultimately boiled down to that anyway.  Really, what stronger motivation is there?
Now, despite the good story, the game was hindered by poor character development.  Somehow, everyone seemed very 2-dimensional in this game.  I think one of the problems is that the characters looked too old.  This might sound odd, but let me explain.  The characters are supposed to be teenagers, and they have teenage personalities, but the graphics make them look like they're in their twenties.  As a result, the characters personalities don't match their appearance at all.
My other problem with the character development is Squall and Rinoa's love story.  Don't get me wrong, I like the fact that there is a love story here.  But, I don't think it was handled very well here.  Rather than developing over time or having some reason for it, it just seemed to come out of nowhere.  One minute Rinoa just gets on Squall's nerves, and the next, he's head over heels for her.  All of this happens so suddenly that it makes their relationship lose all credibility.  Squall's personality is horrible all the way up to the 4th disc, and Rinoa is just sort of annoying at times.  I think Chrono Trigger's romance between Crono and Marle was handled better.  Even though Crono does not speak, you can tell that it developed properly, over time.
The next part, and probably the most important, is the gameplay.  There are some nice, innovative ideas here, but I have the same problem with this Junction system as I did with FF7's materia:  they both take away all the uniqueness of the characters.  In FF6 and other games around its time, each character had a unique ability that only he or she could use, and the characters had different strengths and weaknesses.  But now, with junctioning, all of the characters are basically the same except for their limit-breaks.  So, there is no strategy involved in making a party.  Granted, there is strategy in the junctioning, but it's just not the same.  Also, the Draw command is far too tedious.  I think the junctioning should have functioned more like the Espers did in FF6.
At any rate though, I did enjoy playing this game while I had it, but once it was done there was really no replay value.  It has some major flaws though.  Those introduced to RPGs by FF7 and the like might enjoy it, but anyone who prefers Squaresoft's older RPGs should be careful with this one.After just finishing Final Fantasy 7 I was very disappointed by this game. The first thing I noticed were the graphics. The life size characters just weren't working for me. They tried to put too much detail into them and ended up making their image distorted. The world map is terrible. Very grainy and terrible music. Not to mention uninteresting. The best thing about a Final Fantasy game is the amazing storyline. Not so in this. I'm not really clear what the storyline is in this game and I've played it. You never get to know the enemy in this game or why he/she is evil. That makes fighting them pointless. The fighting in this game is horrible. In order to get strong you need to draw from enemies which leaves you open to attacks. If you use magic you loose your strength. I did like the gfs having their own health though. Rather than taking away mp when summoning, a gf will take hits for you and they can grow their own levels. They have too many levels though. In order for some of them to get strong you need them at level 100 which takes many many MANY hours of countless fighting. I haven't seen the ending of this game. The final battle is the only thing I have yet to do. I got bored and quit. I've switched to Final Fantasy 9 for now. I'll finish up 8 after I'm done with 9 which is a FAR better game.I love the Final Fantasy series, but this is definately the worst one, in my opinion (7 is the best).  It has a pretty good story, but you have to Draw magic from your opponents, and it's just pretty lame.  I guess it's worth the 20 bucks to have this in your collection, but any other Final Fantasy title is better.In fact, I can honestly say that I enjoyed FF4 better than this game.  The higher points in this game were the complex battle system and the orchestrated music.
Square decided to drop their morals a few notches by letting you summon butt-naked women to smash your enemies.FF8 in my personal opinion is not as good as FF7.  The story is an epic, something Squaresoft is famous for, but the way it's told is not as good as it should have been, and that, is the most nagging part for me and it just brings down the game.  Also, the materia system which I grew to love as been destroyed and replaced with this stupid junction system.  I see it's good points but it's too confusing.  Even with the in-game tutorial, and even to this day, I don't fully understand it to my personal satisfaction but good enough to beat the game.  The graphics have been greatly improved.  The people look like real people.  They have hands instead of blocks, and don't have lethal looking hair (CLOUD).  The fighting is the same turn bassed action as before and some battles can take up to 10 minutes, not a good thing when you're in a hurry.  Another bad thing is how much you have to rely on the GFs (summons).  It's nearly immpossible to beat a boss with out using them and most of them take a long time to use.  The anamaters ovously had a lot of time on their hands and decided that summoning a simple summon like brothers will have to take a couple minutes instead of a quick 5 seconds.  Sure it's great for the first few times but after a while, it gets old.  The world is completely futuristic and has nothing to do with it's title "FANTASY".  Sure it's not a big deal, but I'm just pointing it out.  The story is good, but the character development is terrible.  They have to make a game where you actually like the character you play and not one where you constantly yell at the screen calling him an idiot for doing something stupid or saying "SHE LIKES YOU, CAN'T YOU SEE THAT?!" because this games' story is based around love, yet the characters that are in "love" hardly show it, or at least the guy.  I still don't see what she sees in him.  The FMV is greatly improved and also the ingame graphics as I said before.  FF fanatics should get this game but just be warned, the story has a lot going for it, it's interesting, but the characters just make you want to scream.Square only seemed to spend time on graphics and FMV.  They didn't seem to take the time to review the storyline much, because after the first two discs, everything tends to get rather dull and boring.
First of all, I really wasn't fond of the battle system all that much...I didn't like the idea of the enemies leveling up with you.  I guess Square did this to make the game go quicker, but that just made things dull.
Second of all, the junction system wasn't a bad idea, but the idea of relying on the GFs and Squall's Renzokuken doesn't really appeal to me or any other gamers.
Third of all, it just seemed too rushed.  They didn't spend the proper amount of time on this game as Square did in number seven and number nine.  It just seemed like everything was assembled in only a series of two months.
Well, I don't wand this to seem negative, so I'll just jump to the positive points.  First off, the graphics.  Everything looks crisp, clean and very attractive to the human eye.
Second of all, the music.  Nobuo Uematsu is a VERY talented composer, he comes up with some amazing musical scores that is well on its way to blow you off of your chair.  However, it seems that he was rushed on some of the pieces, and it didn't look like he had enough time to finish some of them.
Third of all, the storyline IS a good storyline, but the game just seemed far too linear, and extended over a long period of time.  When you first play it, you can't get away from it.  But after you complete it, you may not want to start a new game right away.  And the second time, you may not play it as often as you did the first time.
So, in conclusion, it was a rather inconsistent game.  It had its ups and downs, but all in all, it's not a bad game.Whenever a role-playing game has the words "Final Fantasy" in its title, gamers immediately attach the loftiest of expectations to it.  In previous Final Fantasy titles, Square did not disappoint, delivering RPGs that blew away their closest competition.  Sadly, Final Fantasy VIII is a bitter step back for the series, a decent, borderline good RPG, but not worthy of the Final Fantasy name.
In an effort to be "different," Final Fantasy VIII's magic system is cumbersome, forcing many battles where upwards of twenty minutes can be spent "drawing" spells from enemies.  Then later in the game when spell inventories begin to fill, because you cannot discard learned spells, you then spend hours casting old, weaker spells repeatedly to make room for newer, more powerful magics.  Worse yet is the SeeD ranking system, which actually punishes you for taking time to explore, when exploration is the inextricable heart of any RPG.  And because puzzles, paths and graphics are often times not clear, you sometimes get punished just for trying to figure out where to go next.
Visually the game is admirable, but FMV cutscenes often seem to be inserted just for show, not for flow.  The soundtrack is decent but lacks the epic qualities found in previous titles.  And the plot of the game suffers from stoicism, with character development being forced at best, non-existent at worst.  These problems, in tandem with the ill-conceived game engine, make Final Fantasy VIII a choking aberration from an otherwise stellar series.
While adequate on its own merits, placed against the rest of the series Final Fantasy VIII clearly lacks the elements which make other Final Fantasy games so beloved.  Final Fantasy junkies will pick it up no matter what, but newbies to the series should start with Final Fantasy VII.After Final Fantasy VII, this was a significant disappointment.  The graphics were ok, but the character movements were very jerky, which defeated the attempyt at making them look more lifelike than those of VII.  The junction system is an interesting attempt to make magic different, but  it was rather complicated.  I'd say that replay value is very little and  the battle system was nothing exciting.  It's a decent game with some nice  new ideas, but disappointing.I got D2 Oct 10 2013 and began playing as a Paladin. As it unfolded I saw where Torchlight
, Fate, and Titan Quest Immortal Throne got many of their ideas. It is those three games I
played long before getting D2 and I realized that I could be perceived as being 'spoiled' if I
didnt 'like' D2. I  played about 20 hours before wrapping it up and tossing it in the trash,
(i only spent 8 bucks on it and got a Ultimate Strategy Guide tossed in for free so little was
lost). Though the graphics are every bit 10-13 years old its not the reason I tossed the game
in contempt. Actually I value a game by how much fun it is to play and not how it looks <--
Ill revisit that point.
 The movement behaviors of my character were so erratic and clumsy they reminded me of how a
roach skitters across a floor. Some examples:
I click on a skeleton to attack and my paladin runs right past it to a door and opens
it....OPENS THE DOOR!!! to allow a host of other foes to flood the room ! WHY did it do
that? The door was yards away from the target ! How about standing in front of a target and
swinging and swinging and SWINGING your weapon only to whiff repeatedly. How about swinging at
a foe and repeatedly failing to connect until its reinforcements show up. How about actually
trying to close a door behind you to try and control the 'battle field'...apparently doors
can only be closed by accident. OH ! How about trying to run through a room only to have the
damn door 'accidentaly' shut in your face while foes catch up and throng around you! That
happened to me a few times but I wonder if thats actually an 'in game' spell a foe uses, im not interested in finding out. How about actually trying to use some of the objects in the dungeons for cover and your character
not only will not line up behind any protective object it will CONTINUALLY run around like a
goddamn headless chicken! It will EVEN run into clusters of foes that surround you and cut
off your retreat!....REPEATEDLY!! I swear I cant tell if my Paladin is mentally
challenged,disturbed or suicidal. its a joke! I achieved level 18 with a singular emphasis on
developing the shield battering skill. I was killed twice but both times it was a direct
result of chronic controls failure.
  All games of this nature experience the previous examples to a degree and its an acceptable reality easily offset by the fun ( D2 DOES have ENORMOUS fun potential BTW but its a potential squandered by clumsy controls....for shame. Even I (in the
real world) could preform better than my 'trained' paladin and what I wrote about a games
value being measured in fun and not graphics is spot on true. There is a game called Dungeon
odyssey thats created by Malfador Machinations. It is a 'budget title' (All Malfador
Machinations titles are), thats clearly inspired by D2 but isn't exactly a graphics heavy
game.... to put it mildly :) . That game is far more fun than D2 and I can recommend it
without hesitation to anyone who enjoys Diablo style games. It is IMHO a superior product than
Diablo 2 despite the fact D2 has ALL the ingredients for great and absorbing fun and though D2 ultimately wasn't worth the 8 bucks I spent on it even with its User
Guide, Dungeon odyssey is worth every cent and no user guide is needed. D2 is in the trash and Dungeon odyssey is still on my hard drive.. I think im gonna boot it up and work on my Paladins career.This is a fun game.  I purchased it a few weeks ago and have been playing it every day.  I guess I am biased against this for a few reasons.  The first reason is that the camera angle is set.  You cant zoom in on your character, and you cant differ the angles.  I have played Icewind Dale, NWN, and Morrowind.  These are all superb in graphics and camera angles to Diablo 2.  You also cant save on this game without exiting?  This stinks!  When you do save, it puts you back in the village.

Overall, its a fun, fast paced game that keeps you interested.

I just wish they thought a little more about it before they released it.  ROCK ON!Blizzard's "Diablo" certainly made waves in the gaming industry when it was released in 1997. Its strange mix of action and roleplaying kept many glued to their chairs for months on end, and spawned nearly as many imitators as the legendary "Doom." In 1997, the formula worked splendidly - but it's the new millennium now that "Diablo II" has come to store shelves, and it just feels a little long in the tooth. That hasn't kept it from becoming one of the most overwhelmingly critically praised games of 2000, though. One PC Gamer reviewer went so far as to call it "the best game ever" at the time. Apparently he enjoyed the minimal story, the pithy roleplaying elements, and the repetitive click-fest that is "Diablo II" - or maybe he just needs to play more games, because this one remains tremendously overrated. I really want to stress how gratingly easy critics were on this game, just because it had the Blizzard logo on the box. Much better games have taken critical beatings, and justice dictates that "Diablo II" is put in its proper place. Even so, it's certainly not a bad game, and can become very engrossing despite its lack of depth and dearth of variety.
Though the "Diablo" games can often be found in the roleplaying section, there is little actual roleplaying to be done. You are offered five character options at the beginning of the game, and you pick one of them as your avatar - it's that simple. It should be noted, though, that each character plays quite differently, and all have unique and impressive skills (or spells) that they can employ when things get rough. Of course, you will also tweak your character's stats to your liking as you gain levels, which is why this is considered roleplaying at all.
In reality, though, "Diablo II" is a top-down isometric action game, and that's just fine. Wading through hordes of demonic baddies is certainly an enjoyable experience - though I myself couldn't help but wish there was more to the game. Combat only ceases when you're in one of the game's three cities (one city per episode), and you really only visit these cities when you need weapons or other items, or perhaps when you're ready to receive your next quest. Quests are extremely linear as well. While playing through the game, I didn't encounter a single quest that was designed to boost experience and was not somehow related to finishing the game's main storyline. I enjoy linearity, personally, but the inability to do your own thing, even just a little bit, keeps "Diablo II" from maintaining its freshness. It all boils down to hacking and slashing, leveling up, and repeating that process until the credits roll. It's certainly fun at times, but it's not enough for the game to stay compelling for long periods. Great games transport you to another reality, but "Diablo II" will never allow you to forget that you're just staring at your monitor and constantly clicking on things with your mouse. Even the outdoor environments just feel like the spruced up tabletops upon which you are playing with your fantasy-themed action figures.
Oh, yes, and I can't forget to mention that "Diablo II" has a truly awful save system that would be more at home in "Everquest." In other words, there's an autosave, and that's about it. It makes casual sittings with the game become more frustrating than they should ever have been, since when you die you'll lose key items in your inventory (like your primary weapons), and you'll have to find your body to recover them. To make matters worse, enemies respawn like rodents when your back is turned, and it's just so bloody  aggravating!
In the end, I have been focusing more on the game's faults than its virtues, since I feel that its faults have been least touched upon in the press - but it really is a good game. It is far from achieving the greatness others have claimed, but it's good. If you're one of the few people with a PC and a penchant for gaming on planet earth who hasn't yet picked up a copy, you could be well-served if you're in the mood for some lightweight action. Don't put too much stock in those editorial reviews you've read, though, and take note that games like "Icewind Dale," "Baldur's Gate," "Divine Divinity," and "Nox" have all done this isometric roleplaying thing considerably better than "Diablo II." They actually offer depth as well as frenetic combat. (Well, all except "Nox," but it was just so bloody fun!) It's inevitable that Blizzard will eventually begin working on "Diablo III," and though it will certainly make plenty of money for the company, if it's to attain true success it had better acknowledge its peers and offer more than its shallow predecessor.
Final Score: C+It's really hard to nail down how good or bad this game is.  When I first got it, I thought it was fantastic.  And for awhile I played it every day.  But I think it gets old more quickly than it should.
In comparison to the original Diablo, Diablo 2 is a better game on all fronts.  Higher resolution graphics presented in fantastic detail.  High Blizzard standards hold true for the voice-acting.  And absolutely fantastic cinemas that continue the storyline between Acts.  The 5 classes all stand on their own very well, each utilizing different strategies to complete the same game.  And even better, the classes work well with each other in multiplayer.  The spells and skill trees add a new level of depth and complexity that is a welcome change from the static growth of the original.  The list continues to cover every fact of the game.  Of the two games, this is the Diablo to get.
The bad side of all of this is that I felt it should have been more.  In a way, it's wrong to feel that way.  It is just more of the same with some upgrades.  The repetitious hacking and clicking wore on me to the point that I stopped playing.  But that is what Diablo is and what I loved about the original.  But I tired of the original a long time ago and this one kept my interest only long enough to finish the game (so I could see the final cinema).  Aside from that, the graphics appear dithered and dated in comparison to what we are used to.  The use of 3D acceleration seems to be tacked on as a buzzword more than anything else and in many cases the software rendering is superior to the 3D accelerator rendering.  And at that, it's only for some of the spell and lighting effects.
Multiplayer was a mixed bag for me.  I got the game when it first came out.  The Realms were plagued with problems and I gave up trying to use them.  I have a consistent group of friends whom I played TCP/IP games with constantly. I never played the game in single-player mode, can't imagine why anyone would want to.  But I have no basis to judge the Realm servers on.  As they are the only means, aside from trusted friends, to protect yourself from playing with or being victimized by hacks, you'll have to decide on them for yourself.  It's all free, so it's well worth an attempt.
Had it come out closer to the original, I think my review would have been better.  But after so long, I expected something more, perhaps wrongly so.  Nonetheless, it is an excellent hack n'slash game with fantastic cinemas.  I'd recommend it to anyone with some warning of what to expect.It always bugs out on my computer. I don't know if this is just a graphical problem or what, but the time I do get to play it is and awesome game. Now if only I could get a new computer to play it on....Literally too, expect your clicking finger to be tired after playing this game.  It's just hours clicking on the screen endlessly to hack and slash the enemies.  I don't even know why this game is called an RPG...it's more action than RPG...
The good thing about it is the CG cutscenes.  Flawless, the best cutscenes in any game.  Period.  Other than that, not worth the money.I have a love/hate relationship with Diablo 2. The new characters are wonderful; I especially like the sorceress. And all the characters have special abilities that they can put "skill points" into. Blizzard simply went crazy peppering powerful magic artifacts throughout the game. Be ready to spend long hours contemplating if you should wear the armor of the fox or the beryl chain of light. I like the town-portal function A LOT, which the Baldur's Gate games don't have. This saves you the time of traversing through multiple levels of dungeons just to get to town. There are also things called "waypoints" scattered at intervals that transfer you back to the town.
BUT. . . I hate the fact that you can't save without exiting the game. When you do save and exit, you start in town again, regardless of whether or not you were in a dungeon when you saved. Any town portals you have will disappear, so you have to take a waypoint to the nearest area. Unfortunately, the areas are repopulated with monsters. So, if you just spent a bunch of time killing a difficult unique monster, get ready to do so again. Plus, although you can hire mercenaries to aid you on your quests, they have little or no combat value and are basically a waste of gold. Diablo 2 is VERY extensive. Too extensive. If you are searching for anything, be prepared to spend a lot of time going over seemingly endless areas in search for items to satisfy the quest you're on. Also, the plot isn't very involved, so sometimes playing feels pointless. But, I still devote much of my time to playing this game. The reason it got three stars is because my not-so-minor annoyances have won over my overall enjoyment of the game. I would think twice before buying this, escpecially with games like BG2 out, and things like Myths of Drannor and BG2:Throne of Bhaal on the way.Okay, I normally love everything Lucas Arts puts out, but this...

I really, honestly loathed this game! The gameplay was repetitive, hard, and booring. Basically, it is every vehicular battle from the trilogy, put on a game.

While this had great potential, and awesome graphics, I cannot reccomend it.I'll start by saying this: yes, "Diablo II" is a good game, but no, it simply isn't where it should be: considering the huge hype and all that.
The gameplay is still the same. You choose your character from five different classes, and than wear out two or three mouses as you battle your way to the Lord of Terror himself, Diablo. The most significant difference is the new character skills. You now how the ability to choose from a set of skills as you gain in level, and thus customizing your character to fit your style of play. The game levels have moved above ground, so that you can explore wilderness areas (but also dungeons). There's a weather effect which allows for rain and lightening. And there's different NPCs you can interact with and even hire to aid you. But other than this, the game is exactly the same.
The graphics is the biggest let-down of the game. They're horribly outdated. The cinematic sequences, however, are the best I've seen. So if you don't mind going over the first game in a bigger scale, you'll probably be able to extract some excitement from the game.Do you really need a review? If you loved Diablo, you'll probably love Diablo 2. It's the same hack-things-up-and-revel-in-the-bloodshed good clean fun of the original, but a whole lot bigger. Everything about it is wonderful... except the save game "feature." And that's bad enough to knock my rating down two stars. Now, when you save, you're forced to exit the game, and you start back in the main city where you begin whichever act you happen to be in. If you're between "waypoints" (and there are sometimes rather large expanses between waypoints, especially in Act III), there's no easy method for saving. It seems Blizzard forgot computers are used for playing anything but Diablo, and thus didn't feel the need to create a game that can be saved when necessary. If you can get past that, though, it's just as much fun whacking monsters as it always was. (The nod to Trilogy of Terror is also wonderful. Take a real close look at the Rat Men/Soul Killers, then go watch Trilogy of Terror...)Okay. I was never a big fan of the first Diablo game. One dungeon. Many levels. Many monsters. Many weapons. Many left clicks. That was really it. The story was decent, but as far as "engrossing" RPGs go, it could've been a lot better.
Along comes Diablo II, and I hoped it resolved the problems of the first game. First off, the graphics weren't really updated. In Act 1, the monsters looked bitmapped, and the animations weren't too hot. As the game progressed, the graphics got a little better, but still, I don't play games for the graphics foremost; it's the gameplay that counts. And again, this is where the Diablo franchise stalls. I like the 5 different classes; it makes for terrific replay value. But then again, when Icewind Dale, Planscape: Torment, and Baldur's Gate I and II are out there, do you really have time to go ahead and play the same game again as a different character? The skills were pretty cool and the plot was masterfully written and detailed in breathtakinig cutscenes. But something is missing in this game. I found some of the quests tedious and boring, without any real fulfillment when I completed them. It was like, "go here, kill this thing, and come back when you're done." Still, I did find myself battling hordes of demons well into the night, so it did keep my interest, simply based on the fact that I wanted to kill the big dude at the end. I worked hard to build up my barbarian, and I wanted it to be all worth it. The different locations were nice, although slightly formulaic (desert, jungle, ruins, etc.), and the ability to customize your character was a breath of fresh air. NPCs were okay, as your interaction with them was limited to mostly gossip and a few quest checkpoints. But don't get me wrong: Diablo II is a nice game, and probably worth the money. But if you're looking for a real story with a "true" RPG feel (a la different characters in a party format), do yourself a favor and pick up Baldur's Gate or Icewind Dale. But if you're into tried-and-true, mindless hack-and-slash, Diablo II is your game.First of all let me say that there is a large audience who loved the first Diablo and will undoubtedly love the sequal.  This review is targeted for the rest of you who may not have caught on to the craze or the hype.
Like many long awaited sequals, Diablo 2 was destined to receive as much anti-hype as hype.  One of the biggest challenges Diablo 2 had to overcome was the treemendous anticipation and expectations that revolved around it.  I wasn't one of the fan's who were waiting with baited breath for the release, so I'll try to remain objective.
One of the nicest things about Diablo was the cool CG scenes between chapters and at the beginning of the game.  The story was well thought out and after watching the first movie I was really hyped to play.  While not a facet of the overall game, they were impressive and worth mentioning.
Another cool aspect of the game were the tons of weapons to choose from, especially with the barbarian who can use two weapons simultaneoulsy.  Unfortunately you can't leave things sitting on the ground like you could in the first Diablo.  gold and weapons go into your stash.  Once it's full anything you leave on the ground will disappear when you quit the game.
Diablo 2 is entertaining, but failed to really captivate my attention to the very end.  I found the game to be unstable on my system which meets the minimum requirements, which was a constant annoyance.  It may not happen to you, but it was a contributing factor to my level of satisfaction with the game.
One of my biggest complaints with the game is that it seems repetitious.  The hack and slash elements are fun, but RPG's have come a long way since the first Diablo was a hit several years ago.  There is little in the way of variety.  The same monsters are colored differently, given new names, made a little tougher and we're supposed to believe it's a new monster.  Eventually even the combat, the saving grace of the game, gets old after you wade through wave after wave of monsters that are far more irritating than threatening.
The other big letdown is that they really haven't evolved the RPG aspect of the game since the first one.  Unlike other RPG's (which I'll get to in a moment) the hirelings and NPC's are static and almost worthless.  You can't interact with them, you can't change their weapons and all their really good for is taking some of the heat off your back until they are inevitably slaughtered.
The game is far more interesting in multiplayer as long as your not trying to connect to battle.net.  If you're like me, however and are barely able to meet the game's minimum requirements and aren't priveleged enough to have a cable-modem, you might as well give it up.  The lag will drive you insane.
All in all, Diablo 2 is a nice little distraction for a couple of days, but it is no t the best RPG or dungeon crawler on the market.  If you want a REAL RPG and not just a dungeon crawler, get one of the many fine Interplay games on the market.  Baldur's Gate 2 may be available by the time you're reading this, but you can already get Icewind Dale, Torment (which is fantastic), Baldur's Gate 1 and the expansion pack, and even the Fallout games, which may be dated but are far more entertaining than Diablo 2.I bought this game not too long ago never having played a turn-based strategy game, although I am a longtime veteran of RTSs.  At first it was a lot of fun, researching new stuff, taking over towns, etc, but it began to  get boring.  Three or four levels into the single player game, it was still  extraordinarily easy, and I already had access to most of the upgrades, but  it was getting annoying.  You can't have parties of more than eight, so  when taking on a castle garrisonning 20 enemies, things get quite  ridiculous.  All of the units are pretty even in strength, and the  cutscenes were not very good, basically a bunch of still shots blending  together.
I do buy games for the single-player, though.  I don't have a  great internet connection, so my reviews don't apply to multiplayer aspects  of games.  It may be great online, I don't know.  However, offline it is  fun and addictive for the first few days, and then it quickly becomes yet  another game junked onto the shelf.
Caution -- when you're playing, this  game becomes one of those "Just a couple more minutes" games that  you never stop playing.Well after about 2 years of delays to get it right you'd think this game would be the greatest thing since sliced bread. Blizzard is one of those companies that I hold to a little higher standard. In my book, they have  fallen a little short. There are no glaring flaws with the game, but it  just isn't the next step I'd hoped it would be. Sure there are nice  additions  like a few more skills, being able to run, and a stash chest,  but it's the same depth lacking RPG the first one was just with a few  additions. Don't get me wrong, I'm not slamming the game. It is a very  DECENT game; it's just not a great game. If you like myself have been  burned out on Diablo for years and were hoping that DII could rekindle the  flame, I believe you are going to be disappointed. If you're looking for  some easy hop right in point, click, and slash action then this is for you.  If you're looking for Diablo but with more depth and more emmersive game  play, then you may want to pass it by. If I were on a limited budget and  needed a gaming fix, I'd look elsewhere first.There are obvious improvements with Diablo 2 such as improved character developement and better graphics. But there really isn't a whole lot better about this game than its predicessor. Also, the fact that the game has been  delayed and delayed some more has really got me wondering if they are ever  going to get this right. Who knows, maybe the final version might change my  mind, but this latest beta doesn't make me want to go stand in line and buy  it whenever it does come out.Well, going into it, I heard that this was SO much better than Quake III arena.  I had played that game, and I liked it.  So, I gave Unreal a go.  After playing for a while, I played Quake III again.  Within a few minutes,  I quit Quake, uninstalled Unreal, and went back to playing Quake.  The  difference in the graphics was incredable.  All the sharp edges are fine,  but I perfer the revolutionaly rounded surfaces.  Quake III blew Unreal out  of the water graphically.  What about the game play?  Well, I was kidna  dissapointed.  Quake III is very intense, the kind of game you get caught  up in.  I found myself playing Unreal, just to see what it was like.  It  had no draw whatsoever.  I thought the weapons were fairly difficult to  use, and were kinda cheesy.  For me, it is all Quake III.Well, that's what CGW editor Jeff Green called "Unreal". After playing it, I'm inclined to agree. It incorporates (on a small scale) elements of adventure games, which slows down the first-person action  without actually adding much weight to the alleged story. It does look  nice, though, at least for a 1997 era game.This is a great game but it gets old way to fast. It isn't worth the money if it was cheaper i would say buy it because despite how boring it gets it is fun for about the first month. The graphics are descent and the lack of plot doesnt really matter because its fun enough just shooting things and stealing cars. So i say wait for the price to go down then buy itIts fun for the first 5 hours but it gets really boring really fast. The graphics are poor and theres no real plot or storyline to it. Its very annoying to have cops on your tail and its really hard to get the the next level. The entire game is filled with pointless pictures of people pointing guns at you just to fill up space. Its a pretty cheap.This game, in the tradition of Myst and Riven, has appealing environments, reasonably challenging puzzles and a solid storyline, and is ultimately fun to play.  Unlike Myst and Riven, Crystal Key offers a 3-D environment to  navigate via Quicktime movies rather than clicking through two-dimensional  snapshots.  There are some disappointments, however.  Graphics quality is  uneven, and while I avoided serious difficulties the software does seem to  contain some bugs. The soundtrack has some pleasing snippets of music, but  clearly the producers didn't bother putting together much of a musical  score.  The interface, while easy to use, reveals some solutions through  its highlighting of "hot spots" on the screen.  The end of the  game lacks the payoff sequence you'd hope to see after spending all those  hours working through the puzzles and saving the world.  Ultimately, one  has some sense that this is basically an unfinished product, but at the  price offered, its not a bad value.This has to be the most detailed and beautifully rendered game ever made.  The monsters look real, the weapons look sleek, and the animation is very realistic, with no jerkiness.  Unfortunately, this game requires totally  unreal system requirements!  Anything less than a PentiumII/300MHz  processor runs like garbage unless everything is turned down, and, well,  there goes the graphics!  This game was the chief reason for my system  being upgraded!  Also, remember the sleek weapons I described?  Well,  they're sleek, but that's it.  For crying out loud, it takes THREE HITS  with a ROCKET LAUNCHER to kill one of the BASIC enemies (the Skaarj).  There's no bang to them at all!  Plus, another good thing about Unreal is  the multiplayer games where you can play against computer-controlled  opponents (bots).  Sounds good, right?  Wrong.  Unless you put the skill  level down nearly all the way, simply aiming a gun at the bot will cause it  to zig-zag in a way that is impossible to hit, all while shooting at you  with godlike aim!  Other than the steep system requirements, the  difficulty of the bots, and the bangless weapons, the game is very good and  highly customizable for all those hackers and map makers out there.  You'll  get your money's worth, but I hope you're good at strafing while shooting,  otherwise you'll NEVER win!I actually really liked this game -- or most of it.  The scenery was beautifully rendered and the locations were interesting.  The story line was not really very compelling, however.  It was more of a reason to put you in the game in the first place than a driving factor, but that didn't bother me too much.  I also liked the puzzles, many of which involved lateral thinking and looking around the environments for hidden clues.
However. There were an awful lot of bugs in this game and it crashed frequently.  And it seemed that just when things were starting to get interesting, it was over.  The ending was abrupt and dissatisfying.
If you're jonesing for an adventure game, go ahead and play it because there are many enjoyable moments. But you might want to borrow a friend's copy rather than buy it.In my opinion, The Crystal Key is a good game. However, it does have some problems. First of all, when you're looking around the area, the graphics don't blend easily. Also, the puzzles are very challenging (actually, I love challenging games). But I must say it has a very interesting plot. When you finish the game, the villain dies and a screen comes up and says, "Congradulations! You've defeated Ozgar and freed your people!" Then it goes to the main screen. Not much of a congrats. This is the plot: Somewhere out there among the stars, lives another race of people. We know this because, just weeks ago our radio telescopes accidentally intercepted one of their interplaetary communications. When we were able to decode it, this is what we read: "Danger: Ozgar has been defeated but not destroyed. Suralon is sinking. Return to Arkonia. Abandon all colonies at once." Who were the Arkonians? And who or what is Ozgar? Only days later, a gigantic alien spaceship deployed powerful satellites around the earth. All kinds of upheavals occured in the next two days: devastating earthquakes, critical weather shifts, and drastic gravitational changes. Ozgar is coming after us. You, a hypership test pilot, are relatively safe in the polar research station, where the world's first hypership is being constructed. After scientists successfully pinpoint the origin of the Arkonian signal, you are chosen as the last hope; savior of the planet. Your mission? Find the Arkonians and defeat the evil Ozgar. I would recommend this game to people who are very experienced with strategy games.Enter the challenging world of Rayman and suddenly reality seems far too tame. Free your mind as Rayman takes you on arduos adventure through a complex realm of psychedelic landscapes, absurd characters, fomidable opponents, and uncharted levels of dementia. This mind-altering platform game features...

1. Menacing opponents that learn your playing style to defeat you

2. Incredibly intense visuals with 65,000 colors and four independently scrolling backdrops

3. 70 surrealistic levels

4. Over 50 demented characters

5. Exhilarating CD-quality sound effects and musicOverall nominal wear and tear. I will have to order a new controller due to broken joystick. However, product came as advertised and shipped very fast. Controller issue is only reason I did not give 4 stars. Item came with all cords and accessories. I would purchase from this Seller again in the future.We might just be cursed, but it seems every N64 we buy, we have problems with it. This is our third one, and it takes about a minute to get a game working (multiple games do this, so it's not the game, and yes, we are putting the cartridge in correctly). Still, it's understandably getting old, so this can be accepted. The games are worth the wait. I recommend Banjo-Kazooie and Banjo-Tooie, very great 3-d platformers and multiplayer (on Tooie). Hands down best two games ever, they are a huge part of my love for video games ever since I first played them about 10 years ago. But yeah, great system.The system itself is not in great shape. I think that the general descriptions are now good enough to be able to predict how the system will arrive. It is very convenient to just pick a system that is affordable but be aware that it might be in rough shape.Works alright. I have to turn the system on and off a lot sometimes to get my games to work. I thought it would have worked better than that. But it does work just takes a few try's most of the time.Freespace 2 has a lot going for it. It's a model space flight simulation. You spend almost all your time flying and fighting with great controls, there's good AI both for enemies and your wing, graphics and sound are very good also. Additionally there's good multi-tiered story although part of it remains unresolved at the end. Some of the briefings that advance the story, introduce new weapons and review mission objectives can drag a little too long.

But as I finish the single player campaign what sticks in my mind isn't the good above but the disappointments. Most of the game takes place in a large nebula. Multi-colored 'gas' and lens flare effects fill the screen, the result feeling like playing with a large flashlight in your eyes. It doesn't improve the gameplay it just irritating. Most missions are the straight 'kill everything' type. Other missions seem designed to frustrate you. For example one mission requires you to fly a series of waypoints that are basically in a straight line. The catch is you can't see the next way point from your current one so if you waver off course you become hopelessly lost and have to start over. Finally a handful of missions are usually difficult, pitting you solo against a large number of enemies or timed with unclear objectives.

Apart from a badly-scratched install disc I had no trouble running the game in Windows 98. Nothing I tried would get the game to install in Windows 2000.In the past few years, Star Trek games have been getting better. With the release of Starfleet Command, the road to better games starts here.
Starfleet Command starts out good with a training mission or two and then goes into actual missions. The addition of Sulu training you is a big plus to this game. However, after playing a few missions, it gets very repetitive in action, despite the changing plots.
The graphics are good, but not great. A 3D card really doesn't improve things.
While this is one of the better Star Trek games, there isn't much variety to it.I nearly returned this because the AV cables didn't work, but i found a solution online using Vaseline to help the connection. Now it runs great.I was upset when I bought this from amazon cuase when I received it ,it didn't work I thought  it was broken  so before I returned  it is wanted to make sure it wasn't the system so I bought a nes cord and when I received  it i plugged it in and it made it work so I was happy  but when I bought it they assured me it worked , but anyways I'm happy nowThe idea is clever: build a supertower for people to play in, shop in, live in, and attend cultural events in.  You can build up or down for up to 100 floor but I've never managed to get enough elevators to really do that.  And no matter how many cleaners you have and how many stairs you have, everyone will start complaining about something fairly soon.  It really needs more options in terms of transportation overall.This game is really great, despite one or two "little" problems.  The plot, the characters, the vision of the future...  One of the few movie sequel-type games that uses its name to the fullest.  Even if you haven't seen the movie, this game's well worth the $$ for anyone who likes a  well-formed adventure story.  This game claims to be real time, but it's  not really (at least in the sense of The Last Express and other well-formed  real time adventure games).  Still, it's really fun, and you usually do  things at your own pace.  This makes this particular game more fun and  enjoyable than its real time counterpart could ever be.  I think the only  major mistake this game has is that it's too darn hard to get any of the  endings you haven't already seen.  After you've seen one, you've probably  seen all of the ones you can reasonably access without changing your  playing habits way too much.  And, some of the prerolled aspects of the  game (i.e., who's a Replicant and who's not) are completely random  (obviously, they're **prerolled**), and therefore you could get the same  ending over and over and **over** again without knowing why.  And, no, this  is not an exaggeration.  I've probably played the game five times, and I've  only seen three of (supposedly) seven endings.  One of these endings was so  revolting I couldn't bear to watch it (not violence wise, more... plain old  disgusting wise; you'll know it when you see it).  All three of these  endings were available through different paths the first time I played, so  I just saved and saw them all the **first** stinking time.  Anyway, I keep  playing it again and again to see the other endings, and, frankly, it gets  old.
To conclude, it's a good game, and, if you can bear playing it  about a billion times, you can take advantage of all the annoyingly hard to  get endings.Definately not the best simulation game put out, but still, this offers some addictive gameplay, until you reach "tower" status.  There  are different levels and your job is to build a sucessful mall complex,  with shops, movie theatres, rec halls, condos, business offices and more.  With rare VIP visits, bomb threats and Santa Claus this game doesn't have  tooo many unexpected twists. You have to do a lot of waiting to get to new  levels and to earn more money.  I'd say if you like sim games give this one  a shot if you find it at a cheap price.This game is fun for the whole family with easy learning for the kids and  adults but this game could have been better at the start it is very hard to  get use to but in the end it is very fun but after about a 2 month period  it can get boring if you like simulated games go check out SIM CITY 3000  and THE SIMS they are great games!!! PoPkOrNAs a child, many of us have had ant farms, well, did you ever wonder what it would be like to be in one?  Here's your chance.  This game is cheap and simple to learn.  Pros:
--It has a simple to learn interface and  everything is self-explanatory
--Controlling your growing ant empire is a  cinch, click there, the ant goes there, push that, yougo to the  corresponding screen.  Everything flows.
--It has very few system  requirements.  A Mac Classic with a CD drive could practically run  it!
It's cheap!
Cons: --It is too simple, all you need do is sit and  wait.  the computer who controls your empire in all the different sections  of the yard will slowly oust the bad ants until you win.
--Has little  replay value.  Once you win it, all the other games are the  same.
Overall, I would reccommend this game, just for the fun of it.  But  if you want a game to get addicted to, one that you can play over and over  again with a challenge, you should consider looking somewhere else.This is the ultimate ant farm for those who can't afford one. You get an ant and you dig a nest. You bring green food to feed your queen. You avoid the spider. You repeat. You can while away hours and hours with this game,  digging away happily, but then you will suddenly realize that you were  digging for naught. Why?
- When you switch between yard quadrants, all  you work is replaced with a randomly-generated nest.
- The "warp  spot" is always in the same place.
- The ants do just as well with  your control as they do without such.
- The ultimate secret - tell to no  one: you can win the game by setting it to max speed and just waiting. The  ants will oust the reds, the humans, the dog and the lawnmower completel  without your supervision.
This game gives you the illusion of being an  ant. It also gives you the feeling of how worthless a single ant is. Try  this game. It grows onto you.The system works, but it was dirty and not cleaned at all. Also the player 1 controller port was chipped but no issue with the controller functions. Overall glad to have a N64 on my desk!Item came very quick but the AV cords were missing so I had to buy some others and the controller had dead moths in it but it works.....oh well. In it's time this game was A+. It's time has passed though. It's still somewhat fun , but graphic's and the like have advanced so far beyond this I don't feel right raving on to hard on it. If it's a bargain priced game or a decent 2nd hand copy it is fun for a run through. The story and difficulty are quite good so that helps it hold up that's a plus.I use to play this AGES ago and use to be pretty good. I started playing it again and I now found that the controls (at least for me) don't seem very forgiving. In order to do tricks you have to place the toggle in the exact correct place (at least pretty spot on). You also have to land in a specific position or else you crash (too many crashes makes it so you can't finish the race). The half-pipe mode is pretty decent though and can range from super easy to insanely hard. Overall a not so bad game for that time.while it works and the controller was fine the console was in disgusting condition cleanliness whoseIf you don't read anything else:

If you find this game at a yard sale for $1.00 - $5.00 or online, then go ahead and get it, but in my opinion there are much better snow boarding games out for the N64, like "Big Mountain 2000," "Twisted Edge," or even "Snowboard Kids" or "Snowboard Kids 2."

Now I know that this was the N64's first snowboarding game, so we shouldn't expect the Taj Mahal in video game form here, but having played the previous mentioned snowboarding games and then playing this, there are some things that I dislike about this game. First, landing your snowboard in this game is more based on luck than skill. First, you have to press the "Z" button when you land and secondly you can't move your control stick AT ALL when you are landing or your player is going to fall over because the board is on an angle on screen. That right there ruined the game for me because it sucked a lot of the fun right out of the game. Also, if you want to try to play this game, I recommend plugging in an N64 controller that has a joystick that is still very firm. I started playing with my usually controller, where the joystick is a little loose and I was pretty bad. Plugged in another controller with a firm joystick, got INSTANTLY BETTER controlling my character in the game! Second, if you bump a wall you fall over. There are other snowboarding games on the N64 that do that, but here it seemed really prevalent. Third, the music in this game is really annoying sounding. I liked the title track, but after that I was treated to songs that had people with high pitched or dull voices yelling the same things over and over again! I would have preffered just straight up instrumental music here. Fourth, I noticed that "PRETTY MUCH" the only way of winning a race against the computer player, was to take a short cut hidden in each course. Sure you could try to out board them, but if you mess up 2 or 3 times (hit a wall or wall over) FORGET WINNING!!! Fifth, when you enter the competition events, YOU ONLY GET SO MANY CONTINUES and let's say you are playing on easy (Where there are 4 tracks) and you want to quit the 3rd race because you know you are going to lose and don't want to waste a continue. So you go to select "Restart" from the pause menu. YOU ARE BACK ON THE FIRST COURSE AND HAVE TO DO EVERYTHING OVER AGAIN!!! AGGH!!! Sixth, I did some of the time attack modes, I believe that's the right name for it. I am not positive right now.) Anyway, you have to board through certain goals (They look like a traditional marathon finish line) and I am playing the one level and the goal was on a cliff above me, that I had no chance of getting on from where I was and time ran out and I lost! WHY WOULD THEY PUT SOMETHING LIKE THAT IN THE GAME!!! Put the goal lines where people have a good chance of getting to them. Not up on a cliff, that I could of went up on, 8 seconds ago, but now I am stuck!!!

I loved the look of this game! That's why it was so hard for me to let go of the thought of getting fully into this game. I tried very hard to like this game, but I still couldn't bring myself to do that because of the mentioned above flaws. If you can overlook them, and you have the taste for snowboarding games you should be able to enjoy this game. Happy playing and thanks for reading! Merry Christmas and best wishes for 2010 and beyond!!!I really wanted to like this game, based on all of the praise it has received and the fact that I really don't have the time to play simply mediocre games.  After having played the Baldur's Gate series and thoroughly enjoying it, I thought that this would be more of the same immersive fantasy-based gaming.  On some levels, this game is successful in creating an interesting world to explore with some fascinating people to meet and things to do.  The story itself is quite intriguing and well-written.  The problem is that the game is slowly paced for the first several hours and is tedious throughout.

Gameplay: The controls are fairly simple and should be familiar to anyone who has played Baldur's Gate and similar RPG titles.  Your character is an immortal amnesiac who must find out who he is and how to resolve his curse of immortality.  The character creation options seem flexible at first, but they really aren't.  While you can change classes during the game, you had best learn how to do one thing well, or there will likely be problems later.  Also, your alignment (moral view) may change based on your actions, but many of the game's quests (including the main one) are scripted for "right" answers that might force your character to play out of character.  Also, there are some unreasonable limits placed on combat.  In 30 hours of gameplay, I didn't come across one projectile weapon, which meant that all fights were melee skirmishes.  Moreover, you can't tell how wounded your opponents are until they actually kill over.

Planescape: Torment is a very text-heavy game, which is both its strength and greatest weakness.  Whoever wrote the dialogue and story is a talented writer, and this would have actually made a decent novel.  However, much of the dialogue gets in the way of the gameplay in ways that are truly annoying.  You'll find yourself running back and forth between people, going through their entire dialogue trees looking for clues (several times).  Sometimes those clues will not be found unless you know exactly who to talk to, when, and about what topic.  Even then you might not get what you are looking for.  Some of the quests are very imaginative, but others are greatly hindered by this ask-everybody-everything-everytime approach.

The dialogue issue would not be such a problem if it did not plague the main quest, but it does.  I hate to consult walkthrough guides, but you will probably have to in order to get pass a few of the several places where you simply won't know what to do next, who to talk to, or what item you need.  There is an in-game journal that can be useful, but even it won't point you in the right direction on some occasions (and "completed" quests are not always taken out of the "assigned quests" category).

Actually, this is the first computer RPG that I have played that could not hold my interest until the end.  This was largely due to the tedious nature of the gameplay.  I knew that it was time to quit when I defeated the main boss, just to get a message afterward that said that, in effect, I had not chosen the correct specific dialogue options before defeating this enemy. What???  It was like finally meeting Diablo at the end of Diablo 2, or Dagoth Ur at the end of Morrowind, or Jon Irenicus at the end of Baldur's Gate 2 and winning the fight, just to learn that you had not been nice enough in your dialogue responses before the fight started and thus would have to redo the 30 minutes of dialogue that preceded the encounter.  Very frustrating.

Graphics: Visual representation is decent, even by today's standards.  Character models look good, as do environments.  The game does have a certain drabness about it, which is part of the storyline.  But overall, the graphics are fine.

Sound: Decent, but nothing memorable.  The weather in the main city of Sigil is always the same, so there are no thunderstorms or other ambient noises.  The voice acting is decent, but quite sparse.  More of it would have made the story even more immersive and less text-driven.  The music was okay, but again not memorable.

Replayability/Value: I couldn't bear to get through one complete playing of the game, so I can't recommend it for repeat plays.  If you insist upon playing this game, try to get it cheap ($10 or less).  The story and quests seem too linear to warrant doing them a second time, especially since you are the same basic character during every game.  There are a few interesting party members, such as Morte and Annah, but NPC interaction here does not measure up to the high standard set by the Baldur's Gate games.

Overall, I cannot recommend this game to anyone except very patient and/or hardcore roleplaying gamers.  For everyone else, there are many computer RPGs available now that are clearly superior to the gameplay, story line, and graphics of Planescape: Torment.  If you want to play a truely excellent, classic RPG, check out Morrowind, the Baldur's Gate series, Gothic 2, or even the Diablo series.  Though it has a good story, my suspicion is that Planescape: Torment largely appeals to a specific niche of the computer roleplaying market, which does not mind its tedious dialogue system, linear questing, and bizarre story.What would happen if there was a place where there existed a portal to anywhere you wanted to go, both real and imaginary?  You would find yourself in Sigil, the city of doors, deep in the center of the multi-verse known as Planescape; a place where the mere belief in something will cause its existence.  You play the role of 'The Nameless One' an immortal being with a touch of amnesia, in his search to find out about himself.

Gameplay:

Torment utilizes the Infinity Engine made popular by Baldur's Gate, yet it seems to be geared more toward the new RPGer rather than fans of BG.  The interface is probably, the only downside to this game.  Everything is accessed through a circular right-click menu that is accessed during a paused game.  Everything from talking to your characters, changing weapons, casting a spell and using special abilities is run from this window.  It's a good idea in theory, yet it tries to do too much with too little.  The original quick buttons found in BG were a much more efficient set-up.

The game uses a slightly modified AD&D second generation rule-set.  As with the interface, the rule set has been simplified in this game.  You have no choice to your starting character.  Simply put, you are the nameless - an immortal human male, who starts as a fighter.  During the game, you have the option of changing between your starting class of a fighter and a thief or mage.  There's no dual-classing, switching to another class is like building a new character, yet switching back, you will find all your previously earned experience saved.  Your available party members are not only locked in whatever class you find them in, but are, for the most part, locked in their weapon and armor choices.

What makes this game one of the better RPGs on the market is the story.  In your quest to discover yourself, you learn about the story and concept of the planeworlds, an interesting universe where belief is very fabric of being.  Though it introduces the player to the world, the story is very linear and you'll find yourself without much choice in the matter besides your decision to play good or evil.

Graphics:

If you've played any of the Black Isle games on the Infinity Engine, you'll be very familiar with the sights and sounds of Torment.  It's a bit more zoomed in than the others, and that can lead to confusion when trying to cross long distances without the use of your mini-map.  But for being 5 years old and only 800x600 it is very artistically done.  A lot of work was put into creating a town that looks and feels like it could be the center of the universe.  Besides the obvious, the game has aged very well.

Sound:

The ambient music is excellently done, as well as the voice acting.  The biggest problem is in the game's EAX manipulation.  If you have this turned on, you'll be hard pressed to hear the voice-acting in any outdoor or cavernous scenes as it just blends into white-noise.  Besides that, the only annoyance comes with the apparent necessity to have your characters have a voice prompt after they do *anything*.  After you've heard one of your character announce they have stealthed for the umpteenth time, you'll be hoping to never hear it again.

Overall:

While it's a fun game, it's not quite my cup-of-tea.  Your character is immortal, you die and wake up somewhere with your inventory intact.  For the most part, you can go around with your level one thief and try to take out City Guards with no side effect.  The game is just too easy, even at the hardest settings.  Add that to the severely linear gameplay and at times it becomes a little slow.  It's your typical quest driven RPG without much in the way of side quests.  Luckily, you have a variable alignment which can change depending on your actions,  and that adds a little to the mix, but not enough.  If the story wasn't as well written, then this game would have been a flop, so pick this up as a nice interactive novel, but don't expect a second play through unless the best RPG you've played before this is FF.I don't know, I bought this game way back when thinking it was going to be like Baldurs Gate..... Big Mistake.  While the graphics and interface where similar I just didn't comprehend it.  Maybe if they would have had a thing  where you could travel to other plains like Dragonlance or the Forgotten Realms it would have been better, but all in all the game seemed... moderate at best.  Like I said, maybe it is just me, but where Baldurs Gate succeeded, this game failed.I bought this thing used for a 6 year olds christmas present and it still plays great.  its a bit advanced for his gameing skills but he will outgrow it before it breaks down and stops workingIt is a fun game the first time around and it still is; having some problems with the movies running on my computer.
Ronna C.When Nintendo 64 is compared to PS1, which is actually cheaper than this is, there is one weakness that Nintendo 64 has. And that is the lack of games. Also, N64 runs on cartridges, and many of its games are costly. Since the console is old, you can get many of the items for this console, and the console itself, for a fairly low price. Nintendo 64 was actually a big hit when it came out, I remember so many of the kids going nuts over it. I actually never had one when I was young, but I don't think I really missed out on much. If you are thinking of getting this gaming console as a gift to a little one, then you should try to get it for a low price. My Mom bought one for[dollar amount]for my brother on Christmas, but I got one used for [less]. Even though it is old, there are many great games, especially multiplayer games available on N64.
Pros:
1) Large selection of multiplayer games
2) Great RPGs, such as Zelda: Ocarina of Time.
3) Fairly cheap if you shop around
4) Pretty good graphics
Cons:
1) Lack of games
2) Old, so lack of new releases
3) Runs games on cartridges compared to small CDs.
There are many games which younger children will love available on N64, so it makes a great gift for young ones.Tachyon is one of those games that intrigues from the mini-movie intro. The graphics and colour schemes are so dazzling that you will instantly get an adrenaline rush. This has to be one of the best rendered games I have come across. The gameplay is simple enough to grasp, there is not much of a learning curve here. Sound,despite the odd shrill female voiceover, is very well done. So why do I rate a mere three stars? I have one rule to playing games. I play for fun and not to be aggravated. Unfortunately Tachyon has a few elements that are sure to tick some (certainly me) off. The game is played out on the "Job Board" where you will be hired to complete contracts ranging from deliveries to disabling "Capital Ships". Some of these quests require the player to repeat multiple times before figuring out how to find the proverbial chink in the armour. Try disabling a Battle Cruiser that outguns you 20-1. Good Luck. That (repetition) gets boring real quick. Each time one has to return to base, rearm and take off again, usually passing through multiple gates before reaching the target. That is a whole lot of lost gaming time. The thrill of the chase and intensity of combat (assisted by the A1 graphics) makes up for the lag. But my biggest complaint is that I have encountered difficulties with the docking controls. On a few occasions I have had to spend up to an hour just trying to dock (despite the autodock feature) because the AI wouldn't acknowledge that I was there. Indeed I had to abandon one quest (Rescue the Persephone) because the auto dock didn't work. It's not just a thing that makes you go ,HUh! but is also very annoying. The quests simply lack the depth and sophistication (lasting little more than 10 min. on average) to overcome the deficiencies. Don't get me wrong I still think this is a great game, graphically speaking, but the repetition and bugs really spoil the fun.well first off, i am not a big fan of simulators, infact i hate them all, except for this one, its got awseome graphics and is very fun, but difficult at times.This is a very pretty game. The graphics were top of the line when this title was released and it still looks very nice. However, the strength of the first 4 Wing Commanders was the storyline. The filmed scenes in WCIII  and WCIV told interesting stories that brought you into the game. The  filmed scenes in this version serve little to move the story along and are  a waste (I am sure they cost quite a bit to make). Furthermore the missions  are fairly repetitious - you are either in a dogfight or on a bombing run.  Try Independence War if you want a challenging space sim or X-Wing Alliance  or Freespace if you want a more traditional but fun space shooter.Rather like 'Rainbow Six: Rogue Spear', 'Delta Force 2' initially seems to be a slightly-massaged mission pack for the original 'Delta Force'. The graphics have been improved slightly, in that you now get to crawl through  grass, and considerably more of the man-made scenery can be blown sky-high  with a wider range of macho hardware, the but the actual gameplay boils  down to long-range sniping, followed by close-range sniping, followed by  grenades and a dash to the rescue chopper. Unfortunately for 'DF2', it  isn't enough. Crucially, the voxel-based graphics engine, whilst perfect  for long-range sniper-fests, is jerky and slow on anything less than a fast  PIII. Whilst not unattractive, the graphics seem shoddily done, with  buildings looking particularly nasty. It's a shame, really, as voxels seem  to be the only way to display convincingly-detailed topography without  curtailing the viewing range. The gameplay itself is hardly changed from  the original, and becomes quiet monotonous after a while - the variety  present in 'Rogue Spear' is missing here. All the original AI faults are  back, too - the bad guys have a habit of dashing straight past you when  they get up close, or running into walls and sticking there.
All in all,  it's much the same as the original, and if you liked that, you'll like this  - but only if you have a fast PC. It's important to stress this. On my  450mhz P2, the game juddered in 640x480 resolution, making it very hard to  accurately aim, fire, and shift my aim to another target.i never liked age of empires.i think ensemble never put much effort into it.well the video is terrible and it looks kind of glum everywhere even in daylight.the missions or campaighns were not highly interesting.well the only thing is that at times it males u think,and that cheered up the glum atmosphere.overall this is just a shadow of what age of mythology is.This game was fun for awhile, but I enjoy faster paced strategy games better. (Stronghold, C&C)  The graphics were great for their time, but show their age now.  The sound is pretty good.  The gameplay, as mentioned above, is not my style, so I didn't like it much.  Overall a 3 out of 5.It's a LOT like the first game, which was great, but I would have preferred it if we had been given more technologies to research. All the discovery seems to be over a bit too quick before each game boils down to the standard 'smash the enemy to pieces' part. In this respect it became quite repetitive, especially when you consider how long it takes to get a good game going. The only alternative is to try out different civilizations, and only then it's just the architecture that's different.

I do like this game a lot but I just wish for a bit more diversity and more surprises in the next one (as in&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Age-of-Empires-III/dp/B004LFX8FY/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Age of Empires III</a>, not&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Age-Of-Mythology/dp/B000J14PBA/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Age Of Mythology</a>). I've not played the expansion pack yet but if it gives us more to work with then I'll definitely check it out.If you like history...buy it. Ifyou dont, don't buy it. I really don't like this game but it is good for stragedy and education of history+building a empire...thats it to me. BUy it if you want...I don't reccomend it!!!!!!!!!!!Don't get me wrong, I'm one of the biggest fans of AoE 1 and Rise of Rome but I didn't like this sequel. First of all, maybe I bought a beta version or something, but why is it that when a Monk moves... abracadabra... he  turns back into our well-known priest from AoE 1?  Is it that the  programmers were too lazy to reprogram the game fully? Again, it could just  be that my version had bugs in it but it is still suspicious and VERY  annoying... this happens with other infantry units as well. Also, I don't  see all that much difference when compared to the original, in fact  whenever they have changed something it is usually for the worse... it now  costs loadsa times more to research new units (I know they are trying to be  realistic but c'mon...) Anyone who's thinking of adding this to their  collection should go for the first two titles, they are definately  better....This is an excellent "product" from a guy who admits he is just a "casual" gamer. He actually admits this in an interview somewhere and I think he's more competent than most designers and much  older. So there, you little whipper snappers.
My main complaint with this  game has nothing to do with the game or developers except that they should  be more careful about who they allow to start fan sites. A certain very  popular site, perhaps the best site with the best forum gave me a very bad  experience. In one of my first posts a regular there refered to me as  stupid and silly and wondered in public if I was senile. All this because I  questioned the diplomatic system in AOK, which any competent reviewer will  recognize as being a joke.  When I complained to the moderators of this  site about this abusive behavior and a general abusive behavior towards  Americans, I was banned from the forum and my ISP contacted for the crime  of contacting these people through e mail.  And now on to more pertinent  information.
I found the game easy to learn and fun to play. The  graphics were good but not great. Pretty soon I found myself relying on one  strategy. Wall out the invaders. Get to castle age as quick as I can and  build lots of town centers to expand and defend. Once you beat the initial  big invasion, the idiotic AI tends to just send invaders in little trickles  that never stop, but aren't that hard to deal with.
It's fun to use  the various seige weapons, but I didn't really bother mastering the armor  and tremendous variety of knights and swordsmen. They all looked about the  same to me with the exception of the english longbowmen. You could play  this game for a very long time, but there are lots of very good games to  play.
This is deep strategy, but not as deep as Railroad  Tycoon 2 and  Rogue Spear. It's also all tiny people and buildings. There's no zooming in  and out or rotating. The fans are kind of ummmm...well, you read what I  said above.
I only played twice on the internet and the first guy  left as soon as I knocked down his whole wall with a massive seige attack.  The game then ended leaving me without the ability to even finish off what  he'd built. My second game I used the wrong culture and after a prolonged  build up I quicklly got slaughtered by the elite teutonic knights. My Woad  raiders didn't have the ability to build cannons I found out too late. So  there you have multiplay in a nutshell. If you are winning, people leave  and call you a hack. If you are losing, they love you and possibly think  you suck.
There was no third, more experienced multiplay for me as I got  wrapped up in the incident up top and lost interest in the game.Medal of Honor is one of the best first person shooter games available, in that it is creative and original.  History buffs will enjoy the realistic feel of the game as you explore the various mission zones.  Weapons are ample and realistic.  Controls are simple and easy to learn.  Missions are clearly explained and while challenging, are not frustrating.  There is a great deal of variety in each mission too.  You'll need to use a combination of firepower and stealth to successfully complete your goal.
The only reason this game did not get higher marks is the unforgivable problem with the graphics.  There is alot of camera issues and breakup, which is a huge problem for games of this genre.  Also, there is a problem with polygon drop out to the point where all of a sudden you can see through a wall or obstacle, which can really throw you off.  Additionally, the replay value of this game is extremely low as there is nothing new to aspire to.  If you are really into historic games or first person shooters, then give this game a try.  Although, if you want more game for your money, try Medal Gear Solid.WCW Mayhem seems like a pretty fun game at first.  You have over 50 WCW wrestlers at your disposal, the ability to take the fight backstage to one of twelve different areas, ring entrances for each wrestler, a choice of six different types of match, a smattering of weapons lying about such as bats, chairs, and - my favorite - tasers, the ability to wrestle (in all of the historical rings from  important WCW events) in exhibition and pay per view matches as well as go in quest of titles leading up to the coveted heavyweight championship belt, and the option to create your own wrestler.  Another important aspect of the game is the color commentary provided by Tony Schiavone and Bobby the Brain Heenan.  It doesn't take long for some of these plusses to start feeling like minuses, however.
I am not a big fan of the new manner of controlling your wrestler built into this game; it is much less intuitive than older WCW-based wrestling games, and I often find myself able to come up with only a very limited number of moves; still worse, I constantly find myself repeating moves I had no intention of repeating.  The announcers do at least have fun with this, talking about move repetition in disparaging terms as it is going on.  Their overall banter, though, while quite funny at times becomes repetitive itself after a short while.  Even the overexcited shouts of Schiavone declaring a victory in the ring grow stale, as do his constant calls for someone to stop the bloodbath and call for help.  I never get tired of the Brain, though; he is always hilarious.
I don't think the graphics here are much of an improvement over older games, either.  There's really not a lot of difference in audio and visual between WCW Mayhem and earlier WCW games for the Playstation.  You can fight backstage now, which is cool, but the graphics are largely unimproved and the gameplay is awkward and sometimes annoying.  I would much rather play the older WCW/NOW Thunder than I would WCW Mayhem, when it comes right down to it.The game is great but like I said about the FF Origins, I bought this new and the case was all cracked.Goldeneye is a classic for a reason! Unfortunately, one of those reasons is nostalgia. This game is still plenty of fun, but incredibly dated. The poor sign-posting and punishing mechanics mean that a little trial and error is needed to beat this game. As enjoyable as it can be, this game feels as old as it looks. It's worth picking up if you want an old school for game. Don't buy it if you're looking for something more modern, or if your patience is thin.This game is pretty fun when you start out as it doesn't have any of the usual monsters that most on-line RPG's do, also you can customise your character to the utmost extream, eyes, face, smile type, color and type of  clothes, ect... To play the game you have to pay $9.99 a month. The  graphics are very good, especially the enviroments, and actually  contradictly to other people I thought the graphics on the characters were  pretty good. Anyways this game has a lotta strong points over other on-line  RPG's, for one, YOU CAN ACTUALLY BUY ARMOR AND WEAPONS FROM SHOPS AT A  REASONABLE PRICE! Something that EQ (everquest) failed to do as it was  Impossible to buy the 3000 plat bracers or whatever it was, and you ended  up having to buy everything from players. What I didn't like about Asherons  Call was that there was no music. The monsters wore thin, and became  dislikable. Also,like on  UO (ultima online), you have to have certain  spell components to cast spells, I really hate that. All in All the whole  reason I quit Asheron's call was not because it wasn't fun, but because I  didn't wanna pay 9.99 a month for that little bit of fun.I gave it to my daughter and she loves it.  The internal battery isn't working so it won't save her game.  I had to spend $30 on tools and a battery to replace it.When playing this game I received a LOT of lag between just opening the menu and entering combat.  Where-as with the traditional SNES, or with a computer, the loading times for these are INSTANT.  The loading lag i received was at least 2-3 seconds almost per opening the menu and going into combat.  Overall I would not recommend getting this to try and quench your oldskool RPG munchies.  Try an emulator instead.Take control of dozens of WCW wrestlers, from Hulk Hogan to Rey Mysterio Jr. Each with differnt moves, grapples and finnishers. The graphics are good, except for their mannurisms, because their normal stance looks like a T-Rex. Then there are the controls, which the buttons are oddly placed and from how slow and laggy the controls are it can be sometimes difficult to perform. There are a kick, punch, dropkick, grapple, run and taunt buttons. The selling point to this game were the arenas and the backstage areas, the arenas look nice, however the space is very limited and with a rotating camera angle its difficult to see where you are going. Another downfall to this game is that it is quite difficult to win a match because of the energy structure. You can beat down a person for fifteen minutes and then they still manage to kick out of a pin. This game is graphicly better and musicly better than THQ games, but its no WWF game.It was with joy and alacrity that I got this double disc set. I loved FF6, and spent countless hours exploring every corner of it. Playing through this version was just to see what was changed, and I was dismayed to see that very little was different. It certainly seemed harder, and while some of the bugs in the programming (particularly the Sketch glitches) were improved and corrected, I did not find anything to further impress me. In fact, the CG scenes at the beginning and end felt tacked on - like they didn't belong. They also failed to make sense to me. The little things - the galleries and stuff - seemed totally unnecessary and useless.
As for FF5, I almost immediately disliked this one. The score is often uninspired (and at times, downright irritating - take the music of Kerwin Town for instance), the plot weak, the characters totally without a personality (except Faris), the dialogue corny, the twists not that shocking. What's more, it doesn't look one bit better than FF4. The random battles are, at times, too many and too challenging. The side quests are without purpose, as are many of the villains, and the plot doesn't seem to hang together well. The opening CG scene has nothing to do with the game, and the ending one is a disappointment, and more than a disappointment. Taken altogether, I was very much disappointed with the set. I feel like I paid for tickets to a great opera and all I got was Tennessee Ernie Ford.
If you've never played either one, you will likely have a good time playing these two. Taken individually, they are good games. I love FF6 - always have - but FF5 ticked me off. If you're not expecting anything spectacular, you won't be disappointed. Guess I *was* expecting it!I bought this to play FFVI, so I never played FF V. This remake just sucked....for one thing, the sound effects were screwed up, as well as some slowdown. Another gripe is no extras except a couple cutscenes and a monster encyclopedia. I guess I was expecting more cutscenes  and a lot of other extras

skip this and just get an emulator and play the original SNES versionFinal Fantasy 6 is arguably the greatest FF game and RPG ever made, and FF5 is another one of the greatest RPGs I have ever played, so how come this game didn't get 5 stars? Well, the load times would be a great place to start. Just like in FF Chronicles, one of the games has great load times, and the other is plagued horribly. FF6 has the worst load times I have ever experienced, even worse than all other ps1 games which have BETTER graphics and contain just as much if not MORE information ( remember Wild Arms? That game was huge, AND it had better graphics than FF6, but it's load times were very, very short, almost unnoticcable, so what the heck!?). Every time you enter a battle you are greeted with 5 + seconds of looking at a black screen, sound fun to you? I didn't think so. Every time you enter the menu you are greeted with another 5+ seconds of load time. Sure, it's only 5 seconds, but once you experience it, you will feel how long five seconds CAN feel, especially when you are used to fast-paced games (the load times are much slower than the PS1 ff's)But on to the games themselves...

Final Fantasy 6- Music- 5/5, Fun 0/5, Story 5/5 Gameplay 0/5, overall-1/5 This game is a masterpiece, the greatest RPG ever released on any system. However, given the poor load times, the fun value of this game is whiped out. Seriously, it's a chore to play it. If you have a SNES system i'd dish out 30 bucks for it if you can find it on Amazon or somewhere else. The SNES version has blazing fast load times, the graphics are better, and the whole experience is so much better. I think it is a terrible idea to release a masterpiece with flaws that whipe out any fun while playing the game. Basically, when you buy this you might as well save your time and throw the FF6 disk away, or sell it towards a SNES FF3 cartridge.

Final Fantasy 5- Music 5/5 Story 5/5 Gameplay 5/5 Fun 4/5 Overall 5/5 Now this is why this game is worth the price. FF5 is without a doubt a masterpiece, and the version on FF Anthology is great. The load times are pretty fast, the sound is great, and it has the Job system very much like ff Tactics. The job system is a phenomenal idea, and FF5 executes it perfectly. Some hate this game, but I think 5 is easily just as good as 9. It isn't as good as 4, 6, 7, or 8, or heck even Tactics, but you have to realize that FF games are so good that even excellent isn't good enough, and this one is a masterpiece, like most the others. FF5 is much more difficult than any other FF game, even much harder than 4, and you will have to battle quite often for long periods of time, and sometime this can be discouraging if you aren't into battling for a while, but other than that it is a good game. It starts off pretty slow, but as you progress it gets much better, so don't lose interest right away, just wait it out and see if it gets better for you. (When i first got ff Anthology i didn't care a whole lot about 5, but when i got around to progressing through it I found it was a great game)

Overall, This version of FF6 might as well not even have been issued, but it is definitely worth it for FF5, and 15-20 bucks is extremely cheap for these two games, just don't expect FF6 to be as fast as the FF3 you remember playing as a kid for Super Nintendo. (Still, I don't get it. Why does FF4 in Chronicles have blazing fast load times, but FF6 is plagued...).

So anyway, I highly recommend buying this game, mainly for ff5.This game is average. It is all about being a dinosaur hunter and trying to get dangerous dinosaurs for trophies. Despite hating real life hunters and being a nature lover, I still must say, since the weapons and dinos were cool and it was all fake, this game did have a couple of pluses. It is all right, and if you can't find anything to do whatsoever, it's probably worth a shot playing this. However, it gets three stars only because there are just a few too many bad spots for it to be in my top games. I don't have it anymore, and do not plan to buy it again, but at least it was okay while it lasted.I enjoy playing the Myst games once through, they are fun and challenging.  However my computer would not allow me to hit a certain switch for some reason, and I was therefore never able to get to the location on the cover.  Even if I had, I would never play the game again, I would know how to do everything, and therefore, what would be the point?  At least it is better then Myst in which you can win within about 15 minutes of starting the game, but still...  Any 60 dollar game (as it was when it was released) should last longer than this.  With the detail put in, the game itself is rather short, with puzzle solving accounting for much of your time.  Also some puzzles can be so frustrating when you know what to do, but can't (the stopping the scopes thing, the puzzle at the top of the dome on the first island).  I thought it was a beautiful game, but I wouldn't get it unless it is below 20 dollars, otherwise I don't really think it's worth it.M&M 6 was a blast to play back in the day, but the evolution of the PC RPG has made it almost unplayable today. M&M6 focuses mostly on doing battles in a first-person party-based setup. It uses classical fantasy elements (and a few sci-fi ones) to make a fun game.

You get to put points in skills and learn spells for your characters. You'll use those skills and spells to buy gear, kill baddies and venture through dungeons for more gear or to save a lost person.

It's alright, but there's tons better these days.

If you want to get the game and have a blast from the past, go ahead and buy it.I greatly enjoyed the 7th Guest. Its sequel, The 11th Hour, is not bad, but it's not very good either. On the plus side, the graphics and the music are just as creepy and cool. On the minus side, the plot is just too stupid, and the extra puzzle elements make the game too convoluted. In the 7th guest, the plot (although not the greatest) was creepy and entertaining, and held the game together. In the 11th hour, there are some elements that are so unbelievable even horror, mystery and intrigue can't account for them (example: somebody gets raped by a house: THAT'S JUST DUMB).

The actual gameplay is also unecessarily convoluted. In the 7th Guest, you solved the puzzles to open more doors, where you could solve more, and open more, until you've been able to solve the puzzle that will take you to the end of the game. The plot elements emerged around the house as a natural part of this process. In the 11th Hour, there are actually two different goals: you have to play the word-clue puzzles to unravel the plot, but you have to play Stauf's puzzles in the House to open doors and get to where you need to go. Perhaps this was an attempt to make sure the plot was revealed "sequentially." In any case, it makes the game less enjoyable, with the word-clues seeming kind of like nagging errands which distract you from the meat of the game.

Final verdict? Play it if you have the chance to borrow it from af friend, or if you have a buddy you can play it with. But don't pay money for it.This is much simpler than newer games.  I played the original "board game" years ago.  The game did load and play on my XP computer but I could not get it to display full screen - it was in a small window.  For that reason it wasn't as much fun as I thought it would be.Frogger is another one of those classic arcade games that any gamer should jump into. Whether it's on the old-school Atari 2600, or in one of the many game collections being released in recent times, Frogger is a game that should have been played at least once in one's lifetime.

This Game Boy version, however, isn't all that amazing. The graphics look very shrunken down, with the color just looking odd, and the catchy music of the original seems to be nearly absent, as the first few notes only play as intro music. Otherwise, it's still that arcade classic on the go.

But honestly, there are much better versions or games of Frogger. The Sega Genesis version is EXACTLY like the arcade game (Everything's untouched), and the Playstation version is a whole adventure, but stays true to the classic gameplay. Speaking of which, Frogger 2 is the best pick for Frogger on the go. See my review for that one.Mario's first portable adventure, though fun while it lasts (which isn't long), is the weakest entry in the "Super Mario" franchise.  The tone of the game, while clearly modeled after the original "Super Mario Bros." for the NES, has a much different feel to it than [any other Mario time] Mario game.  That is because Shigeru Miyamoto did not produce the game; instead, his mentor, Gunpei Yokoi, produced and directed the title.

Yokoi, who was killed in a car accident in 1997 in Japan, was Miyamoto's mentor.  It was because of Yokoi that Miyamoto's game "Donkey Kong" came before the leaders of Nintendo at the time.  Yokoi came up with the Game & Watch series, "Kid Icarus" and "Metroid" for the NES, and the Gameboy.  (A "Metroid" enemy even makes a cameo appearance in "Super Mario Land").

The game features elements not seen before (or since) in the Mario series, including Egyptian themed bosses (although the Egypt theme is common in Mario, the bosses from SML are never heard of again, just like SMB2), space aliens, an apparent unending fascination with Easter Island and its Moi heads, and even two Shooting levels.  Although Miyamato revealed in an "Iwata Asks" interview that the original "Super Mario Bros." was going to have shooting levels, and the coin heavens are left over fragments of that idea (along with Mario having a gun), this idea was never implemented in the core series with the sole exception of "Super Mario Land".

I grew up with Mario, like most other gamers. With only two exceptions, I have played every Mario title at launch or shortly thereafter, from the original 1985 "Super Mario Bros" all the way down to "New Super Mario Bros. 2" (yes I'm old). Obviously being American we didn't get "Lost Levels" until "Super Mario All-Stars", but I got the SNES version when it was released back in '93 and have played through "Lost Levels" so many times over the years I've more than made up for not getting it back in 1986.

Anyway, the two I missed? "Super Mario Land" for the Gameboy (which I did play very briefly back when it first came out, but I never had it; we went with "Super Mario Land 2" instead when I did get a Gameboy) and "Super Mario Sunshine".  The very few times that I did play the game on the original Gameboy back in 1989 or the very early 1990s, I do remember getting as far as the first boss, which means I was a fourth of the way done.

Being the Mario fan that I am, I did play through "Super Mario Land" on emulator a couple of years back, beating  the game over two decades after it was first released. [Before I really played the game I remember getting as far as the first boss, which means I was a fourth of the way done].  Since then, I purchased the title on the 3DS Virtual Console (love those restore points!)

So my thoughts on the game?  Well, of all the Mario games, this is easily the most insubstantial title in the entire franchise of proper "Super Mario" games (I am not including spin-offs and subseries).  "Super Mario Land" was a launch title for the Gameboy, and boy does it show.  The majority of the sprites are small, including Mario himself.  Being monochrome, it can be hard to see what is going on given how small the sprites are as well as how small the screen is. The game is SHORT - only twelve levels.  Each level has about a 400 second time limit, so to do a full run through of the game, even dragging your feet, will not net you much gameplay in terms of time.

Due to Miyamoto's lack of involvement, the setting and overall enemy roster feels quite different than other Mario titles.  There are octupuses, jumping flowers that shoot fire (reminds of me of Panser from "Super Mario Bros. 2", Gaos (they resemble Egyptian sphinxes), robots (!!), Totais (running Easter Island Moai  heads), Pionpis (jumping men who shoot at Mari in the last world) and Yurarin Boos, who are fire-breathing seahorses.  The last two are the most interesting, as they are heavily reminesnt of "Metroid".  The Pionpis reminds me of Samus Aran's female sprite when the JUSTIN BAILEY code is entered, and the Yurarin Boos are identical to the seahorses (in terms of game play and species type, though the sprites differ somewhat) in "Metroid" as well.

The game is set in Sarasaland, comprised of four kingdoms, Birabuto, Muda, Easton and Chai.  Suddenly an evil space alien named Tatanga appears, kidnaps Princess Daisy (who debuts in this game), and it is up to Mario to rescue the Princess (but it's not Princess Peach at least).

 Probably my biggest complaint about the game, besides the short length, is the looseness in the controls.  I don't know if this holds true for the original Gameboy (I suspect it does), but playing on the 3DS, I found Mario often times going slightly further than I wanted, [or not far enough].  I've never hard this problem with the other Mario games.  There is also some weird hit detection issues going on.  I was playing 4-2, jumped up on a pipe with a pirana plant and definitely hit the plant, and Mario did not lose his power up.  I've seen this happen multiple times.

The loose play control further exacerbates another issue: no saving.  If you run out of lives (unless you're on 4-3, the very last world), you have to start all over which can be frustrating.  If you die on the last level you do get two continues.  Often times due to the loose play control I would slightly overshoot where I was jumping and Mario would plummet to his death.  Now, to be fair, to expect such a short game all the way back in 1989 to having saving is ridiculous, but none the less the criticism holds that there is some inherent frustration having to start all the way over.  Nintendo could have at least provided continues (a more realistic option for a game of this age).  .

The game is clearly modelled on the original "Super Mario Bros.", although with some noticable differences.  First, the music itself is unlike anything else in the series, and is one of the strongest assests the game offers.  Just like the first game, you can't go back to the left; the screen only scrolls right.  Mario's sprite is also modelled on his sprite from the NES title.

The power ups are pretty weak.  There are exactly three: the Super mushroom, the Super Ball, and an invincibility star.  The Super Mushroom will make Mario big.  The Super Ball (this game's idiotic version of the Fire Flower) allows Mario to shoot projectiles.  However, the key difference between the fireflower and the super ball is that when you shoot the Super Ball, the ball will bounce off the flower floor and go up until it hits another surface.  So on levels that are pretty open, you shoot the Super Ball, it hits the ground right in front of Mario, and then shoots straight up into the sky, never to be seen again, rendering this power up effectively useless unless the enemies are right up by you, creating a bigger margin for error.  If you are in a more enclosed space, the ball will bounce around against the various surfaces until it either hits an enemy or times out.  Unfortunately you can only shoot one at a time, so if you have one bouncing around and it's not connecting with an enemy, you have to either go on or wait and try shooting whatever your aiming for after the first ball disappears.

Like the other Mario titles, "Super Mario Land" would prove to be a massive hit, selling over eighteen million copies in its initial run.  What's depressing to me is that "Super Mario Land" actually outsold the far superior "Super Mario Bros. 3".  Note: that does not count the rereleases and Virtual Console sales, only the intial NES release vs. the Gameboy release.

For a game of its time, the title is pretty fun.  But of all the games in the core "Super Mario" series, this is easily the least substantial title, due to its brevity, the loose play controls, and the overall disconnection from the rest of the series.  The games sequel, "Super Mario Land 2: Six Golden Coins", is infinitely better, with bigger sprites, more engaging gameplay, and a much longer gametime.  The music though from SML is, admittedly, fantastic and is probably its strongest point.

Mario's first portable adventure, though fun while it lasts (which isn't long), is the weakest entry in the "Super Mario" franchise.  The tone of the game, while clearly modeled after the original "Super Mario Bros." for the NES, has a much different feel to it than [any other Mario time] Mario game.  That is because Shigeru Miyamoto did not produce the game; instead, his mentor, Gunpei Yokoi, produced and directed the title.

Yokoi, who was killed in a car accident in 1997 in Japan, was Miyamoto's mentor.  It was because of Yokoi that Miyamoto's game "Donkey Kong" came before the leaders of Nintendo at the time.  Yokoi came up with the Game & Watch series, "Kid Icarus" and "Metroid" for the NES, and the Gameboy.  (A "Metroid" enemy even makes a cameo appearance in "Super Mario Land").

The game features elements not seen before (or since) in the Mario series, including Egyptian themed bosses (although the Egypt theme is common in Mario, the bosses from SML are never heard of again, just like SMB2), space aliens, an apparent unending fascination with Easter Island and its Moi heads, and even two Shooting levels.  Although Miyamato revealed in an "Iwata Asks" interview that the original "Super Mario Bros." was going to have shooting levels, and the coin heavens are left over fragments of that idea (along with Mario having a gun), this idea was never implemented in the core series with the sole exception of "Super Mario Land".

I grew up with Mario, like most other gamers. With only two exceptions, I have played every Mario title at launch or shortly thereafter, from the original 1985 "Super Mario Bros" all the way down to "New Super Mario Bros. 2" (yes I'm old). Obviously being American we didn't get "Lost Levels" until "Super Mario All-Stars", but I got the SNES version when it was released back in '93 and have played through "Lost Levels" so many times over the years I've more than made up for not getting it back in 1986.

Anyway, the two I missed? "Super Mario Land" for the Gameboy (which I did play very briefly back when it first came out, but I never had it; we went with "Super Mario Land 2" instead when I did get a Gameboy) and "Super Mario Sunshine".  The very few times that I did play the game on the original Gameboy back in 1989 or the very early 1990s, I do remember getting as far as the first boss, which means I was a fourth of the way done.

Being the Mario fan that I am, I did play through "Super Mario Land" on emulator a couple of years back, beating  the game over two decades after it was first released. [Before I really played the game I remember getting as far as the first boss, which means I was a fourth of the way done].  Since then, I purchased the title on the 3DS Virtual Console (love those restore points!)

So my thoughts on the game?  Well, of all the Mario games, this is easily the most insubstantial title in the entire franchise of proper "Super Mario" games (I am not including spin-offs and subseries).  "Super Mario Land" was a launch title for the Gameboy, and boy does it show.  The majority of the sprites are small, including Mario himself.  Being monochrome, it can be hard to see what is going on given how small the sprites are as well as how small the screen is. The game is SHORT - only twelve levels.  Each level has about a 400 second time limit, so to do a full run through of the game, even dragging your feet, will not net you much gameplay in terms of time.

Due to Miyamoto's lack of involvement, the setting and overall enemy roster feels quite different than other Mario titles.  There are octupuses, jumping flowers that shoot fire (reminds of me of Panser from "Super Mario Bros. 2", Gaos (they resemble Egyptian sphinxes), robots (!!), Totais (running Easter Island Moai  heads), Pionpis (jumping men who shoot at Mari in the last world) and Yurarin Boos, who are fire-breathing seahorses.  The last two are the most interesting, as they are heavily reminesnt of "Metroid".  The Pionpis reminds me of Samus Aran's female sprite when the JUSTIN BAILEY code is entered, and the Yurarin Boos are identical to the seahorses (in terms of game play and species type, though the sprites differ somewhat) in "Metroid" as well.

The game is set in Sarasaland, comprised of four kingdoms, Birabuto, Muda, Easton and Chai.  Suddenly an evil space alien named Tatanga appears, kidnaps Princess Daisy (who debuts in this game), and it is up to Mario to rescue the Princess (but it's not Princess Peach at least).

 Probably my biggest complaint about the game, besides the short length, is the looseness in the controls.  I don't know if this holds true for the original Gameboy (I suspect it does), but playing on the 3DS, I found Mario often times going slightly further than I wanted, [or not far enough].  I've never hard this problem with the other Mario games.  There is also some weird hit detection issues going on.  I was playing 4-2, jumped up on a pipe with a pirana plant and definitely hit the plant, and Mario did not lose his power up.  I've seen this happen multiple times.

The loose play control further exacerbates another issue: no saving.  If you run out of lives (unless you're on 4-3, the very last world), you have to start all over which can be frustrating.  If you die on the last level you do get two continues.  Often times due to the loose play control I would slightly overshoot where I was jumping and Mario would plummet to his death.  Now, to be fair, to expect such a short game all the way back in 1989 to having saving is ridiculous, but none the less the criticism holds that there is some inherent frustration having to start all the way over.  Nintendo could have at least provided continues (a more realistic option for a game of this age).  .

The game is clearly modelled on the original "Super Mario Bros.", although with some noticable differences.  First, the music itself is unlike anything else in the series, and is one of the strongest assests the game offers.  Just like the first game, you can't go back to the left; the screen only scrolls right.  Mario's sprite is also modelled on his sprite from the NES title.

The power ups are pretty weak.  There are exactly three: the Super mushroom, the Super Ball, and an invincibility star.  The Super Mushroom will make Mario big.  The Super Ball (this game's idiotic version of the Fire Flower) allows Mario to shoot projectiles.  However, the key difference between the fireflower and the super ball is that when you shoot the Super Ball, the ball will bounce off the flower floor and go up until it hits another surface.  So on levels that are pretty open, you shoot the Super Ball, it hits the ground right in front of Mario, and then shoots straight up into the sky, never to be seen again, rendering this power up effectively useless unless the enemies are right up by you, creating a bigger margin for error.  If you are in a more enclosed space, the ball will bounce around against the various surfaces until it either hits an enemy or times out.  Unfortunately you can only shoot one at a time, so if you have one bouncing around and it's not connecting with an enemy, you have to either go on or wait and try shooting whatever your aiming for after the first ball disappears.

Like the other Mario titles, "Super Mario Land" would prove to be a massive hit, selling over eighteen million copies in its initial run.  What's depressing to me is that "Super Mario Land" actually outsold the far superior "Super Mario Bros. 3".  Note: that does not count the rereleases and Virtual Console sales, only the intial NES release vs. the Gameboy release.

For a game of its time, the title is pretty fun.  But of all the games in the core "Super Mario" series, this is easily the least substantial title, due to its brevity, the loose play controls, and the overall disconnection from the rest of the series.  The games sequel, "Super Mario Land 2: Six Golden Coins", is infinitely better, with bigger sprites, more engaging gameplay, and a much longer gametime.  The music though from SML is, admittedly, fantastic and is probably its strongest point.

While there aren't really any BAD Mario games (they all very fun), there are definitely some top tier Mario games.  Mario is like The Beatles - pretty much everything from the core series is top of the line and tremendously polished, sells massive amounts of product, and is loved the world over.  Even a substandard Mario game is better than so many other games out there.  That being said though pretty much any other Mario game is better than this one.  Unless you have a nostalgic attachment to this game or you just want to play Mario's first portable adventure, there's not a lot of reason to go back to this unless you've played the other Mario games first.  This one should be down pretty far on your list..Nostalgic fanboys might disagree, but in my opinion, Super Mario Land is hardly a classic and hardly worth mentioning in the same breath as the first 3 NES Super Mario Bros. games.

The graphics, while terrible, aren't worth complaining about since I grew up in the NES days of the 80's/early 90's and remember very fondly how terrible many graphics were.  No, I can't defend them.  Nobody can.  It's all about whether you grew up back then.  If you did, you can better understand and appreciate the way the game looks.

My biggest grip is that the play control is pretty lousy.  Mario seems to float whenever you jump, and the same can be said for many of the items such as the mushrooms that floats once removed from a coin box, and the star as well.  Oh, and the starman music is simply atrocious.  Ignore that completely.

The challenge definitely depends on how well you can control Mario's movements because if these controls were top-notch like Super Mario Bros, guess what?  Super Mario Land would be incredibly easy.  This is because a good portion of the game is basically the first Mario game blended with elements of Super Mario Bros. 3.  The only exception is the underwater fireball-spitting machine stage which is a nice shooting adventure type experiment, and the airplane stage which is basically the same thing but in the air.

The enemy animations are laughable.  The goombas look just like the mushrooms for crying out loud!  They also resemble ugly skulls, and the koopa troopas are really skinny and malnourished.  The dry fish that pop out of the ground and go directly up are mediocre looking.  Some of the other enemies that are brand new are actually reasonable.  Oh and an enemy that goes by the name of "Bunbun" (LOL!) is really nice.  I believe this enemy influenced the Super Mario Bros. 3 flying goombas but I could be wrong.  Actually I'm not sure I'm thinking of the right enemy after all.  Oh well, at least I got to say the hilarious word "Bunbun!"

I just really hate how the first half of the game feels like a watered down Super Mario Bros. with the pipes and coins feeling like they're lifted directly from SMB.  Not *directly* of course, but close enough that the developers should have put in more effort to make the coins and pipes stand apart from any connection to SMB.

I HATE the music.  All of it.  Just really screechy and irritating bloops and bleeps that hardly resemble a melody (except for the castle theme which is some kind of cliched Egyptian music).  There's also a fairly melodic Asian theme later on that, again, is repetitive and cliched, and the game ending music is really spectacular as well.  That's it.  At least on the NES an effort was actually made to make ALL the themes memorable and bearable.

On the plus side, I like how Mario shoots fireballs.  The way they bounce and hit enemies on an angle is a nice surprise that takes a small amount of skill to master, and the size of them is quite impressive as well.  Fighting a variety of bosses instead of Bowser is definitely a plus in my book.  Oh, and the challenge is actually pretty high in a few spots such as the bouncing boulders that you have to ride over spikes.  This is pretty hard.

Oh, and Daisy?  She's a LOT better than Princess Toadstool.  By now you're probably well aware that the Princess allows Bowser to kidnap her because she's an attention seeker.  Daisy is not only more attractive, but more sensible and respectable, so you really WANT to put in the additional effort to rescue her.  In a perfect world Daisy would have been the one to face an enormous amount of success and Princess Toadstool would have been forgotten.  You see Princess Toadstool is too much of a fake, generic woman who's *supposed* to be attractive like Vanna White.  Daisy is a REAL woman that you want to cuddle and comfort.  There's a BIG difference between the two.

Instead of reaching a flag at the end of each stage, you're given a choice between two doors.  The top door takes you to a bonus area where you can get powerups and 1-ups.  Always go for the top door if you can.  This is mainly how you acquire 1-ups.

Nah it's not quite a classic but it's a commendable effort.Super Mario Land is unlike any other brand of Mario that I've ever played. Jumping right in to the first level, nothing is characteristic of a typical Mario; alien spacecrafts, exploding koopas, and airplanes abound. When the game came out in 1989, it was a testament of technology on the small screen. Those sentiments don't hold up as much today. Poor controls and awkward level design plague the game. The game is moderately difficult, but not anything an experienced player should have any problem overcoming. The game can be beat in an hour or less and makes the perfect time waster if you want to play a game, but your schedule doesn't allow you to do so for a prolonged period of time. Because of the lack of playing time, there is no save feature. The game does have some replay-ability, as once you beat it, the next play-through will include different enemy placement and a little more of a challenge (unless of course you shut it off or your batteries run out...d'oh!). The background music, while simple, is one of the more memorable factors of the game. I recommend picking it up, especially for the price on this site. However, don't expect a "timeless classic" like other reviewers have praised it to be.This game was the best..............in its time. Now, it dosn't compare to newer games. The graphics, surprisingly, are pretty good. A bad point is you can't save your game and it gets frustrating. Overall, the game isn't very bad, but I'd buy Super Mario Land 2 or Wario Land.I've looked at quite a few retro X-Men games, and aside from the arcade game, this has been the only decent one I've found. This game lets you take control six of your favorite X-Men. You got your classics like Cyclops and Wolverine, but you also have the less-known but very well done mutants like Gambit, Beast, Nightcrawler, or Psylocke. Magneto also becomes an unlockable character after you beat a certain stage in the game. The level design for this game is superb. There are lots of different environments that use very vibrant colors, although some are better than others. Plus, you can team up with a friend and wipe out your enemies as a team. Playing co-op with a friend has always been one of the most nastalgic elements of my childhood so I always get excited when I can find games when I can team up with a friend. However, this game is far from perfect. It's main fatal flaw is that it is incredibly easy to walk right into the enemies because you're always on the right-end of the screen whenever you're moving forward. The only way I can play this game is when I just inch along from level to level really, really slowly. This gets boring rather quickly. Not to mention you only get a few continues before it's game over and there is no way to save your progress. This is still a lot better than the other X-Men games of its time, but is still in some need of a few finishing touches.The Genesis version of Mortal Kombat 3 is not that bad. The graphics are pretty good,as is the sound. The only bad thing about this game though,is it's VERY VERY hard to play with a three button controller. If you buy this game,I highly recommend that you buy a six button controller along with it,if you don't already have one,because it's hell to play it with a three button. Overall,this is a fun game. Not the best of the series,but still pretty good.The main things to remember about Mortal Kombat III for Genesis are that:
1) It's on Genesis and not SNES, so the controls are terrible. You will have to mash multiple buttons together to get one response, etc. I don't know if a snazzy 6-button controller fixes this issue, but I don't have one of those.
2) This is not Ultimate Mortal Kombat III, which is waaayyyy better.  You will find yourself wishing that it was mainly because of the much larger character roster.

Other than that, it's a pretty decent game that can offer a few minutes of fun here and there, maybe more if you are with friends, but I found that most of my friends can only get down on a game like this for a few minutes because the controls are so horrid.I'm gonna make this review short and simply say check out UMK3, its really like an improved version of this game.

This game has good graphics, good music, and decent character selection. You can play as the 2 boss characters with some kinda cheat during the options menu, that's a plus. But the game is just to weak by comparison. It lacks a lot of little things Ultimate Mortal Kombat 3 has to offer. The gameplay isn't bad but with some better control options that could have really been improved.

Its not a horrible game, but there are better ones like UMK3 and also other games out there that would make more sense of your time!It's such an obvious idea, I'm surprised no one has thought of it before: a game that plays like a comic book where you are in the panels and each page is a level. It has neat little features like how enemies are drawn into the page and you can choose different paths, but where the game falls short is in the gameplay. All it consists of is punch-punch-kick again and again; it gets old and doesn't allow for strategy or skill. It also doesn't help that the story and music are weak, not to mention that this game is atrociously difficult.This is a good sequel, but it is not as fun as the games that follow it. The graphics have qutie a bit of work, and the gameplay needs to play a little catch-up. It is fun, but there are better games to come.I love the game. It came fast, but it was in horrible shape. For as much as I paid for the game, I would think they would at least of cleaned it. It definitely did not work out the box, I had to use alcohol to clean off the connectors and scrub all the grime off the cartridge. If I had paid $5 I wouldn't be complaining to much.Not really a 2 player game as fox just really follows the hedgehog like he is a magnet.When you look at the painstakingly long list of comic licensed games that were released for the 16-bit systems of years ago, most were basically just walk from left to right while beating up countless generic villians in a game which lacks any kind of spirit or feel of the comic it is based from and is pretty much Streets of Rage with a comic license attached to it (notably most of which were published by Acclaim or one of their other publishing divisions). Maximum Carnage is based on the mid-nineties massive event that took place in the Spider-Man comics in which Spidey had to team up with Venom to take on Carnage in a ravaged New York. In the game, you can play as Spidey or Venom, and you pretty much do all as I described above, and thats about it. Almost none of these games had any kind of save feature, and Maximum Carnage is one of these games, and it is a painstakingly long game to finish and does offer some high difficulty. Maximum Carnage's few saving graces are the game's music provided by Green Jelly (although it sounds a bit generic at times considering the Genesis didn't have the best soundchip imaginable) and the fluid and colorful graphics. There are a few guest appearances from other heroes (Firestar, Captain America) and you've got some tough villians in Carnage, Shreik, Doppleganger, and Demogoblin, but other than that Maximum Carnage is only a bit better than the heap of comic licensed 16-bit beat 'em ups.This is a rather decent fighting game starring DC's premier superhero team. The roster of characters is a bit limited (What! No Green Lantern?) However all the mainstays of the JL are here-Yes,even Aquaman. But the computer A.I. is pretty cheap. It's fursturating to be trying to land one hit, and geting pummeled by the Flash quicker than, well...The Flash. Also, the special moves are rather tough to pull off, and when you do a special you usually have no ideal how you did it. If the game were more balanced, and had more characters to choose from, it would be more interesting. As it stands, it's good, but could have been so much more.Years before Michael Bay's would-be catastrophe came along, turtles ruled the world.  They ran all the industries that mattered; comics, TV, movies and games, like this one.

Based on the 90's cartoon show, the objective of this Game Boy title is simple: Rescue April O'Neil from the Foot Clan using one of the four Turtles.  With 3 basic attacks at your disposal, you fight your way through 5 level filled with ninjas, robots and floating boxes of pizza to replenish your health.  Though enough grunts are thrown in to increase the challenge, you can beat the end bosses wearing your ninja mask backwards.  On the off-chance you do use up our heroes, the game ends.

Besides changing the limited control scheme to one's own taste, the player also has the option to choose whichever stage he wants.  So you can either play through the whole thing and get the full cowabunga experience, or skip all the way to the end for near-instant gratification.  Kinda defeats the purpose, doesn't it?

Like any 9-year-old, I was obsessed with owning a copy while I could still go out and buy one.  Now that I've tried it after seeing the best that 21st-century gaming has to offer, Mom's cooking doesn't taste as good anymore.

This game is unrated.NBA Hangtime was originally an arcade game that continues on the NBA Jam franchise with updated roster, graphics and the ability to create a player with its own attributes. It did pretty well and eventually it was ported to the SNES, Nintendo 64, Playstation and PC. While it's a spot on arcade port, it's okay when you play it by yourself but best played with other people.

You start off by choosing to create a player or just picking a squad of two guys from any NBA team to go against the computer for 4 quarters each lasting 15 minutes. Whoever has the most points wins the game. Beat all 29 NBA teams and you will be crowned the grand champion. The game's option screen lets you choose to lower or higher the audio and sound effects, increase or decrease the game's difficulty and to slow down or speed up the game clock. As for creating a player, you choose a name and pin number, then choose a head for your player, color of uniform, how to distribute attribute points, pick a nickname and then save it all so you can use it during the match ups. You can bring up to 3 other players to play 2 on 2 matches at any time. As an added bonus, you can find online and enter various cheat codes to activate different effects, get additional players, courts and a different basketball.

The PROS: Midway gave us an exact arcade port of the hit arcade game. Everything that was in the arcade game is in here so you won't miss anything. Don't worry about the controls because it is easy to get used to. You can even customize the buttons to your liking. The create a player and cheat codes are welcome additions while the multiplayer portion proves that is where the real fun is at; especially if you and your friends like to trash talk during the match ups.

The CONS: Nothing else was added to make this port stand out; no extra modes or bonus content means that all is you do is play against the other teams. Also, no matter which difficulty level you put it at, the A.I. players will ALWAYS catch up and make sure they can beat you at the last possible second. It can get frustrating when your shots are suddenly blocked with perfect precision, get shoved to the ground with lightning accuracy and have the A.I. players make perfect shots no matter where they are in the court. You will lose games every so often and to earn more attribute points for your created player, you have to win 4 games in a row for 2 APs and that's the ONLY way to earn them. At least when you play against other people, you level the playing field enough for the game to be enjoyable.

There's nothing special about NBA Hangtime. It's a perfect arcade port so you won't miss anything if you didn't play it in the arcades. It's a game best played with other people as the A.I. players make sure you don't win by a landslide and do whatever it takes to rob you of a win right down to the last second in the fourth quarter. And there's no special ending if you do beat all the teams so this is really for the fans of the NBA Jam series and no one else. Get this cheap and make sure you have friends to play this with. Otherwise, pass this one up.Being a followup version of NBA JAM it should have kept some of the same options previous versions had. Particuly the "dunks from anywhere" and "unlimited fire" codes. Because it's more fun to play with those codes sometimes then it is to play this difficult game. The stratagy compared to JAM is a lot harder and makes it less fun IMO, you can't just turn up the juice and kick your opponents a## in this one because the computer will always make a comeback instantly every single time, even if you get 20 points ahead all of a sudden you cant sink a bucket, your instantly blocked by the comp or it will steal from nowhere and there 3 pointers never miss even with players who in real life cant shoot for $#!%.

It is very hard to block or grab rebounds against the computer, shots don't go in nicely like in NBA JAM,  and it's difficult enough to get on fire, let alone, stay on fire with the cheating computer instantly making come backs to make it a hard to win matchup everytime... eventualy you do work out the stratagy and it becomes a challenge to win instead of being fun to play.

There are some cool new options tho, the graphics are better then the old SNES Jams and there is new cool dunks and ally oops, double dunks, and "team fire" where if you can make 3 ally oops in a row both of your teamates become on fire with a blue colored flame. The create a wrestler is a cool idea, but you cant do much then just choose heads and attributes and a nickname.. tho I dunno what more you could create for a basketball game? Maybe a whole new team or something and a cheat to get max points, you have to win 4 games in a row to 2 new atributes... ok if you have a memory card, but it sucks if you don't and all data is lost when the machine is turned. Why does it use a memory card???? The SNES versions never needed to use them, and it takes up little space on the memory card, enough to have been in a battery backup option.

Overall I'd much rather be playing the much funner versions on the SNES then this one... I don't like that there is no "unlimitd on fire" or "unlimited team fire" cheat. The code "461" does enable a cool out=door, street style court to play on which is a lot easier on your eyes then the red and orange of the usualy looking indoor courts (codes hold left, block, block ...[<200])... but unless you are playing this game with 4 people then its no fun. probably a lot of fun with a game shark, but not on its own.. and when you get through the 29 teams, there is no cool ending like on the SNES one where it showed video things of real dunks... this one just rolls credits and says thanks for letting us waste your time.Okay, so I'm six years too late in reviewing this game, but what the hey: I just recently picked it up really cheap, just to see what it was like since I'm a huge Mortal Kombat fan. Bottom line? It's better than I expected, but not by much.
I've bought around 16 Nintendo 64 games, and not once have I complained about the cartridge format: until now. It served me well through GoldenEye, Perfect Dark, Banjo-Kazooie, Battle for Naboo, and even through Resident Evil 2. Yes the video sequences in that game were highly compressed, but seeing as how squeezing them all in was a miracle by itself, I have no complaints. It's too bad Williams didn't try any similiar compression techniques for MKT. The game feels woefully incomplete, especially when compared to the PSX version. A couple of characters were sacrificed, including Goro, Kintaro, the unmasked Sub-Zero, and classic costume changes for Kano, Raiden, Jax, and a few others. A lot of the classic backgrounds are also missing, noticibly from the original game and Mortal Kombat 2. And then there's the sound, or what tries to pass itself off as sound. While the N64 was capable of Dolby 5.1 Surround by the end of its life span, here it can barely crank out decent mono. Other reviews have said the sound seems canned, muffled, and my personal favourite: like your speakers are set up behind a cement wall. It's all true, every bit of it. If Williams had given the game better sound, I might have been tempted to ease off on it a little.
The gameplay has been carried over from MK3, with a new aggressor meter at the bottom. Thankfully, for the characters that have made it, all their finishing moves are intact, and are still cool to watch. There are also various 2-on-2, 3-on-3, and tournament modes to mess around with. The game does get stale after awhile, but it happens to all fighting games. MKT is good for a few rounds of mayhem whenever you're bored.
I don't regret purchasing MKT, but I wish Williams had taken more time and effort to polish the game, such as reshooting the actors (Brawka in particular feels cut and pasted directly from MKII), and finding a way to cram everything in. MK fans without a PSX should definitely get this. It's not completely satisfying, but it gets the job done.its an ok game but i don't really know hoe to do the mission mode. like i can only do the challenges.It's a great game and I remembered playing it all the time when I was little with my brothers. My older brother got an N64 a year ago and he has been unable to find games for it. I ordered this and a few others from here but this one never came. The others arrived on time but sadly, not this one. I don't like to make a big fuss over this kind of stuff so I'll just order it again when I can......... Well, this game is okay if you're an RPG beginner of have to do this weekend and drank too much caffeine on Saturday Night. Very, very short game. Also very easy, if you're somewhat experienced in RPGs. It was much easier than I expected. Well, anyway, if you've got a couple extra bucks and nothing to do, maybe you'll wanna pick this up.As the Playstation heated up the console wars, Sega and Nintendo weren't the only competitors this time around. So N64 owners were delighted to hear that MK Trilogy would be released and in 1996, it came out and was a moderate success. But with delight came confusion and disappointment as Nintendo's version wasn't identical to the Playstation version in more ways that one. MK Trilogy turned out to be a decent and dated MK fighting game even by standards back then.

MK Trilogy is a fighting game combining all the stages, characters, game play mechanics and "fatalities" (gory special moves) from all of the past MK games into one glorious version with extra modes and options to give fans of Mortal Kombat the complete experience. Choose from one of 26 characters (plus 4 secret characters that you have to unlock) and you can either play one on one kombat, 2 player vs. kombat, tournament mode or 2 player three on three kombat. The main goal is to beat every fighter you come across and make it to Shao Khan, the game's main villain. Each character has its own background story, ending, moves and fatalities so the game will keep you busy as far as using different characters by yourself or taking on another player. There are numerous codes to enter with varying results so find a guide online and try them out yourself.

The PROS: Everything about Mortal Kombat is all in one game: the stages, characters, moves, options, music, game play, codes and secret characters make an appearance. MK fans will dive in head first and feel right at home. And the 2 player modes let you challenge another player for added replayability. Plus, no load times means every match starts immediately.

The CONS: While the Playstation version had loading issues, it turned out to be the better version overall. Thanks to cartridge limitations, the N64 version doesn't feature the extra characters found in the Playstation version and takes a big hit in the graphics and music department. Animation frames are missing which means the graphics are not as smooth as it should be. The music doesn't sound as good as it should be since it's been compressed to save space. The controls are spot on but some will find the N64 controller a little cumbersome at first so it will take some getting used to before you forget about the initial inconvenience.

What's disappointing is that had this come out a year later, MK Trilogy could have turned out better since other developers opted to ship their games in cartridges with more space and it would have helped out. Because of key sacrifices, this game will only be cherished by the fans and somewhat acknowledged by everyone else. This game would later re-inforce the notion that CDs were the better medium to make games on while cartridges had less space to work with and were more expensive to manufacture. You can pick this up cheap and I would recommend this game to the fans and those who never played the Playstation version.same as the other one but with a few glaring differences like the graphics stink like a butt on this one.theres a lot of characters in this one.theres robots,cops,martial artists,gods.......really theres only 2 types. 1-the kind that get beat down by the computer almost every time and 2-the kind you can win with all the time prettily easily through massive repition.they are lou kang,raiden and the cop.theres some male ballerina looking dude with a lot of flaming balls.......errr i mean fire balls.hes pretty good except for the whole spandex thing.its alright but 4 is way way better.im actualy suprised they're even from the same system considering 3 looks like a sega master system game.for all you bozos out there the sega master system came out after the intellivision and before the original nintendo.oh yeah,i don't appreciate the guys who made this making shiva a chick when in fact shiva is a very powerful hindu god with enough destructive capacity in his 3rd eye to destroy existence!Mortal Kombat Trilogy is a pretty good game for N64. But compared to the Playstation version, it's just a small combination of the past three MK games and nothing more. The graphics are okay, the animation is fair, but the sounds & music are ... poor! It would be better to put the volume on mute while playing it. Plus, the N64's control doesn't quite do well with this sort of game. There are three really cool cheat menu's on this game though. However, for whatever reason, there is NO one-button-fatalities cheat! You have to press a certain combination of buttons on your controller in order to do all the finishing moves. That really...!!!! Plus, every stage uses music from MK3. That gets really annoying after a while.
My advice to MK fans: BUY THIS GAME FOR THE PLAYSTATION! YOU'LL GET YOUR MONEY'S WORTH! On the playstation version of MKT, you get all the characters from all of the MK games, including their own set of moves and fatalities. Plus, there are more cheats, secrets, and even the popular one-button-fatalities cheat is on here!!! All of the stages are here, and the graphics, sounds, music, animation, and controls are excellent!!! Buy this on your Playstation, and avoid the N64 version. ...At the time when racing games came out for Nintendo 64, San Francisco Rush was a game that was unlike anything that hit the street. The game showcased unlike anything imaginable with its high energy, and exterme driving. Nevertheless, any game worth driving always needs a second opinion. It is important to see it to know if you like it.
When San Francisco Rush came out in 1997, it was a little more crazy unlike anything I've ever raced. The graphics were just amazing, but unfortunately, the controls were just a little bit awkward, and hard to steer through the streets of San Francisco. The game anyway features six tracks to choose from, three not released in the arcades, and a extra special hidden track. Before it was a choice in Rush 2, it was featured here, Alcatraz. The amazing course did have some cuts, but it wasn't that extreme until nearly a year later. The game also features a couple of hidden cars to seek, while driving. There are hidden keys located on the street, unlocking 2 cars to choose from, once there accessed, a hidden taxi cab, and a devilish prowler.
Although there were two different versions of Rush that came out during the time, one for Playstation, the other for Nintendo 64, they both seemed a little bit flawed, but enjoyable. Nevertheless, if you had a choice, I would suggest picking up Rush 2 Extreme Racing U.S.A. for Nintendo 64. But, unfortunately, for Playstation buffs, that was the last Rush there was. If you like this game, pick it up. If not, depending if you own a Nintendo 64, get another racing game.Wouldn't work on my system. Froze up a lot trying to get to the main start up screen. Worked on a different system. Don't understand why it wouldn't work on mine when all my other games did work. But the game did arrive fast and the sticker on front was in good conditionA somewhat entertaining video game to pull out of your cartridge stack to play and help kill thirty, maybe forty-five minutes with. Out of the twenty Nintendo 64 games that I own, I play this one probably every other month or so. Good graphics to say the least. Also like the music that's played when I put this cartridge in for a race. Sounds very much like that of The Orb or possibly Aphex Twin. Used price for the video game simply cannot be beat.Believe me, this is nowhere near the worst game of all time. It is strictly an average game. It breaks no new ground, offers very little in the way of new and fresh adventures, and it's explicit blood and guts get tiresome after a while. But where it excells is in the horror aspect, with well animated and truely frightning monsters lurking in the back alleys, there is much to fear.
Set in Victorian London (circa 1840), you assume the role of either a preist or a young student apprentice. The former excells with strength while the other excells at agility. Both offers skills essential to survival. Your task is to defeat all the monsters that an evil scientist has unleashed. Cliched as the story is, the action is fun for any fan of "Resident Evil" or "Tomb Raider", with the action in the third person similar to the other survival horror games.
The graphics are nice, but dark and moody. This makes the gaming experience unpleasant over the long run. The music is nicely done, and reminds me of the moods set in "Silent Hill". The action is nice, and will please gamers who crave action and painting walls with your enemies. But in the way of deep story or character development, you may want to look elsewhere.
Not very bad, but not very good either.Doom 64, ain't all that bad, But as for Me I wouldn't buy it.  I did rent it, And I enjoyed it for the time I rented it.  But, I think this would be one of them game's that get old in a week.  Doom 64, is a Shooting game. But, it does not have no Multi-player mode.  The are a lot of level's in the game, But one thing that I didn't like, is They all looked the same pretty much, Just with a better name.  The level's looked good, And 3-D. But, everyone and Everything in them, looked like it was paper glued on.  The best thing to do, Is Rent it for a week-end And, see how you like it.Needs additional rumble pack purchase.  Other than that, I would give it 5 stars.  Not seller's responsibilitytheres this dude in one of those you cant see youself games going around and shooting at monsters.thats really about it.its pretty straught forward for a while.its not very obvious what you're supposed to be doing and that always sucks.i like knowing what im up against.its pretty good.As a collector of older games, I had to get this one since I really enjoyed the three Donkey Kong Country games on the SNES. DK64 is a good game, but it's very frustrating and repetitive. At times, the mini-games and puzzle solving seems impossible to complete. The levels in this game are huge, so expect alot of exploration time.  The Graphics were good for it's time. It plays similar to Super Mario 64, only with monkeys instead of a plumber. The worst thing about this game is most definitely the camera angles. You'll be running along fine and forget that you have to push left C or right C to swing the camera around causing you to fall of the ledge of platform, even with the camera option set to "follow". If you want a game that you can enjoy playing without getting frustrated, stay away. But for those who love challenges, this game will definetly rack your brain.Label is faded and peeling like it was left in the sun. The cartridge doesn't always start up. It also didn't come with the N64 RAM extension, but luckily I already had one. Barring these drawbacks, the game is fine.Doom has returned with an all-new game for the Nintendo 64. As always you are the lone soldier in space sent to annihilate goat headed monsters, imps, zombie soldiers, arch viles and spider masterminds. But new to the Doom saga are very intelligent enemies and upgraded graphics, which look smooth and not pixilated like the PC and other versions. Also new are three new weapons, to help you tear through dark creatures on your way through 30 levels. The good part is that they are action packed and challenging, the bad part is that some of the levels take you an hour to get through them. Which sets Doom 64 apart from the Quake games for N64, because in Quake it is obvious what to do... go straight and kill whatever gets in your way. With Doom you use your mind to uncover things. However, this is a stereotypical shooting game where you can only point your gun forward and you cannot jump. Fortunately in this game you will not find yourself fighting monsters on staircases, ramps or shooting at them from miles away like in the other versions of Doom. All of that being said, it is a good game, but it will not keep your interest, because of all of the extras that the PC versions had, such as making your own levels, this game does not have.Even know I am a HUGE fan of Small Soldiers, I knew a video game soon enought. The video game was so diffrent from the movie it's not funny. oh well.No complaints, fast shipping, game works and i got it as a gift, I Had a hard time finding it anywhere locally, thanks to the distributor/person and amazon, it made the gift possible, thanks. the condition it was in and the fact It only being a gift was why I gave it 3 stars.When I purchased the N64 version I was disappointed that it required an expansion pak to play it. Now I have to wait a few more days for those to arrive to play one of the best games ever made.

UPDATE: not the game I thought it was. Donkey Kong COUNTRY is the version I remember as a child.Sometimes, you'll hear people say that a game is good because it takes like 100 hours to beat or something. What those people left out is that the game they're playing is fun, which makes them want to play it for 100 hours. Donkey Kong 64 has its moments, but I don't think it's fun enough to really finish 100%.. or at all. I played and loved all three Donkey Kong Country games back in the day, and I was pretty surprised that there was an N64 Donkey Kong title of which I'd never heard. But this isn't a Donkey Kong platformer: it's a mini-game marathon. It's like Mario Party, except not half as fun.

Let's start with the monkeys, which are arguably the title's greatest fault. You never, or at least I never, really felt like you're in control of an agile primate. These Kongs move far too slowly. You "run" in much the same manner that N64 Link does (rolling). But Link moves way faster than these monkeys, and and you might find yourself screaming, "Oh would you just get to the warp point already!" Furthermore, the jumping ability of Kongs in 3D space seems to be less than polished. They won't get you killed, as this game is ridiculously easy (in terms of staying alive). However, they will annoy you as big Kremlins knock you off ledges because your monkeys can't move like monkeys. Now imagine bad controls coupled knocking you off ledges with being forced to barrel roll back at 50% OoT Link's rolling speed.

All too often, Rare's solution to hiding 200 Golden Bananas throughout the game seems to be 'toss in a mini-game'. Some of them are fun, but these mini-games bring the term 'Wii Play' to mind, and that's a phrase I'm sure Cranky Kong wouldn't want to be associated with.

They want you to play with each character once in every level. This wouldn't be a bad idea if the platforming controls were better and there were a decent number of enemies to fight (outside of those two or three bonus levels). But if you want to get everything, you need to barrel roll through each level five times, killing the one or two enemies that oppose you, and exploring for the spots where Rare wants to launch a mini-game. Two of the mini-games were the original 8-bit Donkey Kong and Jetpac. They're easily the best parts of this game.

I got bored with it going through the water level with 80 or so Bananas. It's too long and it's not really that fun, but there is a lot of sort of ok content along the way. So, three stars, I guess.I have poured hours and hours into this game as a kid, but there is one fatal flaw that affects its overall greatness, and that is the requirement of beating the near-impossible 1981 Donkey Kong arcade game two times with only one life each time. I played the original 1981 arcade game at an arcade place recently, and that is lenient compared to the hair-tearing experience that the one in Donkey Kong 64 will offer you, and the player is required to not only receive a Nintendo coin from beating the arcade game twice, but the game also requires the player to play and beat Jetpac, which is actually more lenient than the original Donkey Kong, but it still can be a mess to beat. On a positive note, the levels are very detailed and beautifully designed, thanks to the Expansion Pak, but the fact that the player is required to beat the original Donkey Kong twice with only one life per attempt killed the fun, as I would put away the game because of that one impossible mini game to cool down, I even had to buy a Gameshark to beat the game the first time around; it was near impossible. I can now beat it without the use of a Gameshark, but I still find it completely unnecessary to hold such a hefty requirement just to beat the game normally, and if it gave the player a different ending I would understand, but the game forces the player to beat those mini games, and while it could add to the challenge factor, it is still completely unnecessary to just merely complete the game normally. I would still recommend the game, as it has some redeeming values such as advanced sound effects and detailed enemy and level designs, but the player must have extreme patience and be fully willing to take a couple of brutal beatings from the original Donkey Kong and Jetpac in order to beat the game.well I've had this game for close to three years. a friend left it at my house and shortly after he moved I found it under some stuff. So, I decided to try it out. Since then i've played it about 5 or 6 times, and to tell you the truth, it's not that bad of a game. the original idea of transforming your characters into ferocious beasts is a step ahead of the other fighting simulators out there (tekken, battle arena toshinden, tobal) and is original in it's own right. However, I do think that some of the gameplay is slow and blocky, although the characters are well designed. The difficulty is a bit harder than your usual fighting game, but that leaves the player desiring more gameplay rather than beating it the first time with nothing else to strive for. The art section is interesting, and the characters are displayed wonderfully. One thing I'd like to point out though--I really thought Fox was cute...until I found out it was a GUY. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a pervert who obsesses over video game girls, but I thought fox looked alot cuter than alice...but when I found out that it was a guy...haha I just about smacked myself. So anyways, to sum it all up, this game is a good kick for 2 player or playing it once in awhile, but as far as total replay value goes, it's not all THAT great. I recently sold mine ot somebody because I never played it, and it just sat around. I figured with the extra money I could use it to invest in some shiny new guitar effects pedals or something of the like. so, having spent 5 minutes of my time, I hope I helped somebody in making their decision whether to buy this game or not.  -Jaredthis was a game I found by accident but it turned out to be hilarious and fun, truly a challenge and there are so may secrets to be revealed.If this game was more like the Donkey Kong Country series released on the SNES, then it would be a masterpiece. It's true that it has several of the DKC basics, including several monsters, massive bosses, the Kong Family-Donkey, Diddy, Candy, Funky, Cranky, and Wrinkly, as well as newly introduced members Chunky (Kiddy's brother), Tiny (Dixie's sister), and Lanky (DK's second cousin). However, the game is really more like Banjo-Kazooie, which is unquestionably Nintendo and Rare's trademark N64 series. Rather than having various levels in multiple worlds to trek through in a platform adventure, we get eight massive worlds for heavy exploration. It really just isn't quite the same. As true as it is that it is fun as hell to play, it doesn't get as high an overall rating because it strays so far from the classics. However, other than that, it is highly enjoyable.The one good thing about this game is the multiplayer, which is why I gave it 3 stars. When I was having a sleepover, we played the multiplayer mode all night. But there is always something bad though, and that is the single-player mode. I beat the game on agent in a week, which was too easy, but trying it on Special Agent was too hard. And the guns are horrible. So if you are bored you can get your friends over and play a couple of rounds of multiplayer, but otherwise the game isn't that great.I was really looking forward to trying this game so I was pretty disappointed when I played it.  The controls on this game are terrible as is the camera angle.  There's a very brief tutorial at the beginning of the game but I didn't find it very helpful.  You're given a briefing on what you're supposed to do and what your goals are but I didn't find that helpful either.  This is one game that I would not recommend to anyone.I love playing Monopoly and can destroy anyone who challenges me. But what do I do when [others] are too scared to play me? I play this. I wasn't sure if this would be good or bad and was suprised it was not that bad. Still, it is a bit easy but when yur board this will take up some time. I prefer playing the real version but this game is pleasant.It's fun to destroy stuff in this game.  Blowing up whole towns just doesn't get old.  I don't know how successful this game was, but it seems it was underrated.  I rented it once and enjoyed it a lot.  The only problem I had with it was it got pretty difficult after finishing some of the easier levels, and I don't think there were all that many easy levels.This is not a five-star game, and it's far worse than Super Mario 64.  The camera tracking and hint system are both badly programmed.  But its major flaw is the overall game design.  Rare came up with a truckload of games and ideas, and then just put arbitrary decisions into the overall game to string them together.  There are tons of things to do, but if you don't beat the level bosses, you can't progress.  Rare should have designed all the mini games and boss levels so that choosing another Kong character, or returning later on with more experience, would make the game easier.  They failed.  The hours you put into this game *let* you go further, but don't *help* you go further.
There's a lot to like, and after a few hours climbing the learning curve you'll have twenty-plus hours of fun wandering around.  But completing the game is an exercise in frustration, even with a game FAQ at hand.great graphics, not enough action.  the whole game is basically collecting golden bananas to unlock worlds to collect more bananas.  It is a good game however and is a steal at the price amazon is selling it for.  it is identical to banjo-kazooie/tooie, so if you played those games and hated them or are tired of them, don't buy dk64,  personally  i found dk country more fun on snes, but that is just me.(...)

I love F-Zero on the SNES and I was anxiously trying to get my hands on a copy of this version. And finally when I did I am very disappointed. the graphics are crap, the 3D polygons have no detail and the background is the same every time. Why can't there be a car that has all A+ categories, even if it's next to impossible to unlock, why couldn't they make the superior machine?

The race hardly goes fast enough. The only 2 tracks I did like where the ones with a tube pipe thing you drive on, like driving the outside of a tube, not the inside. And another track that had quite a few leaps and jumps... but over all, I still would rather be playing the original and best on the SNES. They should have included the SNES version on the 64 cartridge as a side game or something.

Overall:
Graphics: 3/10
Sound: 5/10
Controls: 9/10

This game might be better on multiplayer, but even a tho I have now unlocked every car and track up to the X round. I do have 30 days to return it if I don't want it, and I think I will be returning it. It's a rental game; tho you may not be able to rent them from too many places anymore, it makes me feel better that it will be out of my hair and I won't have it collecting dust rather then be going to someone else who might enjoy it more then I did.

I thought they would have learned from the SNES version, that the game needs a cheat for infinite turbo boosts... that doesn't require a game-shark.You know when I sit here and think about it, does Mega Man 8 do *anything* right?  Oh sure I'm giving the game 3 stars because I'm such a big Mega Man fan and willing to defend even the worst moments of the series, but let's be honest- this game is mediocre the entire way through.  Not to mention gives the STRONG impression that Capcom tried to make too many changes and just about all of them fall flat on their face.

Let's talk about the levels.  Why does it seem like Capcom has done everything in their power to make sure these levels don't even remotely resemble the ones from the NES days?  I understand we're talking about a 32-bit system with the Playstation (and Saturn) so obviously the graphics will look significantly prettier than the ones from the NES and Super NES, but instead of running and gunning and strategically/excitedly shooting apart robot foes like most respectable Mega Man titles, this game implements too many unrelated ideas and thinks it's okay to pass them off as legitimate levels.  This is the same reason X5 failed so miserably.

Frost Man is all about riding a jetboard and jumping from section to section.  While I don't mind having most of the stage devoted to this particular feature, I do certainly mind when several levels in the game are devoted to similar ideas.  It makes me think Capcom didn't have enough creativity in mind when they made this game.  Also the game actually tells you when you jump or slide by stating it clearly "jump jump" or "slide slide".  I don't like being told what to do.  I didn't have to be told what to do in Mega Man 5 or Mega Man X4 while riding the bike.  Why do I have to be told now?  And this stage is entirely too long.  Hmmm maybe that's it.  Capcom felt an overlong jetboard riding level would wear thin on players and they thought it'd be too challenging for us so they made it so we're told when to jump or slide.  In other words Capcom knows they made the level too long!  In Tengu Man's stage, you're mostly riding on top of Rush Jet not by choice but mandatory to move forward, and battle several enemies at once.

This brings us to another problem- why are there so many enemies on screen at once?  It's nearly impossible to battle all this danger without taking several hits along the way since they all fire bullets in your direction.  This feature totally reminds me of the old NES game Gradius.  You can't really master these type of segments unless you have the patience to play the level a thousand times and memorize every enemy's location.  Anyway the first two Wily stages have more extended jet board or Rush Jet segments that hog up the level.  In terms of excitement overall the levels in MM8 fall way short compared to Mega Man 7 as hard as that is to believe (a game that was by no means perfect but better than MM8 by a longshot).

But it gets worse.  There's actually a circus stage called Clown Man, and oh boy is this stage a contender for the worst one to ever appear in a Mega Man game.  First of all you have trains that come out of the doors in the background moving on tracks.  When Mega Man appears on screen, get ready to battle them.  While incredibly silly for a concept and inappropriate for Mega Man, that's not even the main issue I have with this stage.  What I strongly dislike is the part that appears soon after where you have to wait for robots to ring bells so you can jump in the correct box that warps you to the next level up.  This is absolutely terrible and childish.

The music is really really bad.  Normally in a Mega Man game you hear catchy memorable melodies appropriate in illustrating the theme of a level.  Not so in this game.  This is all a bunch of fast-moving, unmelodic, indistinguishable techno gibberish that proves Capcom was more about making the levels look more futuristic than keeping the heart and soul of the Mega Man series in check.  Shameful move on Capcom's part.  Even worse, clearly the graphics are comparable to the ones in X4, X5 and X6 so Capcom had no desire to keep the two Mega Man series separate.

Okay this is another big issue I have with the game.  I almost never mention the voice acting since it's mostly tolerable and even irrelevant since I normally don't stop and think about it, but in this case I HAVE to mention it since it's unavoidable and overbearing.  I have to mention how much I strongly despise it.  Yes we all know that Mega Man shouldn't sound like a girl and yet he does.  However as it turns out *all* the voice acting in this game is really intolerable and way way off.  Dr. Light doesn't sound right at all.  I swear there were a few moments in the beginning when I thought he sounded like Mike Tyson!  However there's an even bigger problem than just the voices being unsuitable for each and every character.

The boss fights also have voices.  However Capcom didn't think this idea through because not only do they say really cheesy B movie-like lines before the fight begins and the moment before they explode, *while* they're getting hit they repeatedly say the SAME EXACT LINES OVER AND OVER.  This is really annoying.  Basically every time you hit them with a weapon, get ready to hear them speak.  I'd bet anything Capcom thought that making these bosses talk while taking damage would be more impactful and meaningful for action lovers, but it actually has a reverse effect on the player so it sounds incredibly cheesy and unforgivingly annoying instead.  Also let's not overlook that many of the voices sound like children speaking in an elementary school play, further annoying me with the perception that Mega Man is for children only. *rages*

Is there anything good?  Well sometimes a certain decent stage like Aqua Man might come along where you're swimming through the level avoiding enemies which is pretty fun.  Avoiding spikes while swimming in a bubble form reminds me of a certain level from Mega Man 5 where you have to avoid spikes while riding an elevator.  I have to chuckle at the way they gave Mega Man a swimming animation though.  I've never seen it before!  The Gravity Man stage is alright though sometimes generic with all the block-destroying segments that reminds me of X2.  Astro Man's stage is deplorable due to being too elaborate and maze-like which is WAY off track for a Mega Man game.  The boss fights themselves are often times slow and resemble the ones from X4, but they're passable I suppose in both design and the moves they have.  The only annoying part with the bosses is that it takes an eternity for weak points to be exposed, making these fights longer than they need to be.  Oh and what's up with the soccer ball kicking weapon.  A tribute to Mega Man soccer perhaps?  Some tricky kicking techniques are a requirement to effectively eliminate some of the bosses which is a nice feature.

Wily is boring and mostly easy this time around.  Then again compared to his second round MM7 battle, *anything's* easy in comparison, haha!  Weapons are a joke.  Completely uncreative.  Again the amount of foes on screen at any given time often comes across as disappointingly hectic without any time to catch your breath which means taking hits is most certainly a given.  These are mostly problems in the jetboard and Rush Jet stages.  Some of the enemies that I initially hated are actually okay now due to the realization that the game has so many other problems.  The robotic worms, spinning penguins, rock chucking apes (they're probably not apes but remind me of them), pearl spitting clams and several others are fun to battle.

Overall Mega Man 8 is a disappointment.  I now realize why my high school friend Kevin quickly moved on from this game despite being a huge Mega Man fan.  He had the Saturn version.  He wasn't happy with the game, and neither am I.  This was the only game he was talking about for a couple weeks leading up to the day it arrived in his mailbox.  Then after he went through the game, he pretty much dismissed it and barely spoke of it again.  I say avoid this one.Okay...now I'm not a fan of Mega Man, and I have only played this Mega Man, which I recieved as a Christmas present 2 years ago. I recently put this up on a rummage sale for $7 after playing it about 4 times. (In two years!) Well, I just took it off, because i figured out, they are paying mad prices for it on ... so im gonna sell mine there for about $30. Anyways, I played this 4 times....out of the two years I've had it, and my 4th time was the day before the rummage (which was two days ago)...my advice is that if you like cartoons, then this is for you. Nothing but cartoon humor, cartoon mischief, cartoon talking, cartoon bubbles...THE WHOLE GAME IS A CARTOON! I guess if you have liked MM for awhile, MM8 would be good for you, but not for the average gamer. If I had to rate this at an age scale, I would say it is from ages 6-10. My lil step bro likes it, and he begged me to play it and he did, (even though he totally ... as it)...i watched him play it, and it was a cartoon. The only cool part was the TV-like anime at the beginning. I have the Collectors Edition, and there are only 10,000 ever pressed. I collect things, but this, I must say, even though there is a limited number, and they are no longer making this, ...I have to sell it. I won't ever play it, and I wouldnt ever spend the money to put this in a plaque cuz it just isn't worth the money.
So, to wrap it up...If you've liked Mega Man, or you're intrested in the Mega Man legacy...or, for that matter, if you like cartoons, then this is for you...and yes, agreeing with one person that said this earlier...Mega Man sounds like his little sister.This game is really fun and all, especially for those who love all of the old Mega Man games ( such as myself) but I was kinda dissapointed. I expected it to have more bosses and levels. Just like all the old ones, you chose your opponent and then fight him and get his ability, then chose another untill you beat them all. It has been like this sense the first one came out! However it is fun! In this game, you can actually upgrade your wepons and stuff, but the graphics arn't that much better then the Netendo versions ( Although there is a cartoon in the begining). If you're looking for long gameplay hours, this is NOT the game to buy! If you're lookng for "another Mega Man" then I would recamend it.Graphics: 6/10 &#8211; Not too flash really, there isn't much to look at here. The aeroplanes look nice when you're checking out which one to fly in, but in the air, it's mostly just a nice shade if blue.
Sound: 6/10 &#8211; I can remember the background plane noises, but the shooting sounds could've been more bang-crash-WAM!
Value: 5/10 &#8211; If you play a lot of games that are based around things in the air or aeroplanes, this isn't the pick of the litter. It is worth buying for a price under $..., but you might not be interested if you aren't willing to get fly-wise.
Overall: 6/10 &#8211; Definitely not a poor game, it will teach you with its intelligence how to fly a simulator plane, but don't expect the entertainment level to be through the roof.Contra from Konami was the premiere side scrollin' shooting game of the late 80's and early 90's. It was both on the 8-bit NES and both 16-bit game consoles, and it reigned supreme. In this Playstation version, Konami changed the gameplay a little too much to keep it viable in the shooter market.  Contra's graphics aren't bad. In fact, the polygon environment is a great improvement over the old shooter genre. But, the characters are still bitmaps, and with the top down perspective they look squished and silly. All of the guns and battlements are made of polygons, have fluid movement, and are all around 'perty. But most of the enemies, power-ups, and items are bitmaps. This mix of graphics formats just doesn't fit well in Contra's case and shouldn't have been used, Konami should have stuck with one or the other. There are four different characters you can choose for your adventures. Ray and Tasha are humans. Also included is CD-228 and Bubba, a robot and a alien respectively. Each has a total of four weapons, and these weapons are different depending on which character you choose. Other than that, there are no differences. Konami should have included some different attributes for each character, for instance: Ray can jump higher, but Tasha is faster. Disappointingly, there are only six gun totin' levels. Although they are fairly large, you can run through the first two in about 5 minutes. Some of the deeper levels have some cool features, including a boat that you can drive around. In the second level, there is a "jungle arcade" that has two arcade machines with some old cheesy 80's games on them. Just walk up to them and it inserts the quarter for you! Get ready to play either Gyruss or Pactank. These little details and features are the ones that can really make a game stand out, but there just weren't enough of them in Contra. Throughout the game there are various big bad bosses that attack you. Most, if not all, of them are made of polygons, and they all have fluid motion and look great. Again, if they had made all of the characters polygonal, Contra would have been a much better game. But, then again, sometimes the game has some bad slowdown. When surrounded by tons of enemies, the game lost about 10 frames a second. Konami is trying to push the Playstation too hard in Contra and the slowdowns are annoying because of it. The sound is very good and the music follows suit. All the machine gun and laser fire sounds are 'realistic' (or at least sound good), and the ambient sound adds to the environment too. Even though the music is typical to a shooter, it's still enough to keep you going through the level. The game is really easy to control. Contra doesn't suffer any inconsistencies when slammin' buttons on the controller and it really shows as you go through the game. There is also a "strafe" button that allows you to side-step left and right. This is really useful while heading up in a level, you can just step side to side and keep firing instead of turning all around the place. Konami made it complex enough for advanced players and simple enough for everyone else. You also get some cheesy 3d glasses with the game. Turn on 3d mode in the game, but on the blue and red glasses, and get ready for a headache. There is some slight depth perception at the expense of all the color, and a flickering screen. It just a worthless gimmick. There was no point in including it, except for fancy packaging... I mean, who couldn't pass up 3d glasses!?
Contra is a decent game, but it's nothing like its 16-bit predecessors. If you want some real Contra action, just pull out your SNES or Genesis.Silicon graphics and the usual play control equal an easy to learn 3D fighting game. The thing that makes this game really unique are the killer combinations of moves, and the fact that there are tons of special moves for each character, but then when you start doing a combination of moves there are even more special moves! The fighting arenas are visually astounding, especially Spinal's ship. There is even cool fighting music to keep up with the pace of the fight. Speaking of the pace, there are 100s of options, including the speed of the fight, disabling certain moves, damage, and anything you can imagine. Another great part about this game is that there is an actual scale of challenge, which makes it anywhere from easy for a beginner - to difficult for a master gamer. The only disappointing thing is that the original fighters are better than the four new ones.This game is lacking a lot of things, but it is still a good side scroller.  Its definitely reminiscent of Yoshi's Island on SNES.  The story leaves much to be desired, as do the characters, but the overall action is fun.  I reccomend it for younger audiences, but definitely not for the 11 and up crowd.Hard but in a time where racers don't exist anymore, it's nice to play one for old times sake.cartridge in very poor condition .. But after clean up works most of the time with some TLC.N64 at it's fineset, and still I can only give it 3 stars... it has amazing graphics, not a lot of depth to the game, and just about no replay vaule, the game gets eventually so hard you turn it off and never play it again.  If you don't know what this game is, don't bother.Cartridge seems to have some issues. Hopefully they will go away after a few cycles of use. Description was accurate but some issues were missed.Loved this when I was a kid, but seemed fun to play only a couple times and then I got tired of it. Should play with a friend to make it more interesting, but still gets old quick.Hands down the hardest game of the first three.  The graphics were better and Lara had new moves.  But the game took an almost insane turn for hardness.  Not the best pick for your first Tomb Raider experience.
The game is cool that you can complete the stages in any order after completing the first one, India.  Also stealth is involved in some areas like Nevada.  Better to not tangle with all the guards.  The new save feature is pretty lame though.  Instead of keeping the excellent save anywhere mode from the last game, they made you collect save crystals.  And to be bluntly honest there aren't enough in the game.  Makes the game more frustrating than it needs to be.  Thank goodness for cheat codes right?  Still a solid game and worth adding to your Playstation collection though.This game was obviously created quickly for the N64. It has good potential, but was not used in the creation. The best part of the game is the options. You can choose your truck, track and purchase items to  "beef" up your truck. I have to agree with other gamers who said  it was Cruis'n USA with dirt tracks and trucks. It has the same annoying  game control and graphics! I returned my Cruis'n just after I bought it. I  kept Off Road however. It is still somewhat fun to play just to see how  beefed up you can get you truck. Bottom line; If you are looking for a sim  type racer, don't waste your money! But if you want a racer that the whole  family can play(even little people)and have fun, this is not a bad game.A great N64 game in its own right although its a little too easy its still a fun game especially for kids. The game features a story mode which gives you the option of which levels to play and depending on how well you do you can unlock more levels in the next chapter, unlike traditional games where the level ends when you reach the goal the level only ends after you've eaten a certain amount of fruit. the game allows you to play as six colored yoshis as well as two special colored yoshis. Unfortunately as good as it is it still got a few faults for instance the story mode is way too short with only six chapters and two boss battles, though some of levels are super easy some of the latter levels are annoyingly difficult and the music can be incredibly annoying. While it's nowhere as good as Yoshi's Island, Yoshi's Story is still a pretty good N64 Game.The X-Files Game is a great adventure/mystery game. I couldn't stop playing once I started. Great story, cool missions. ONE PROBLEM I beat it in one day! And it has NO REPLAY VALUE! Once you beat it once then thats it! It's no fun to play again because you know whats going to happen. I suggest you rent it instead of buying it, because it only takes about 8hrs to beat. But still, it's deffinately worth checking out!Okay. So back in 1996, the Nintendo already had Super Mario 64. The addition of the critically acclaimed Wave Race 64 made the Nintendo 64 even more promising over the then-somewhat-struggling PlayStation. Although it may be largely forgotten now after the relative failure of Wave Race: Blue Storm, Wave Race 64 opened to critical raves and is still a cornerstone of Nintendo 64 nostalgia for gamers.

But you know what? I think Wave Race 64 isn't really that fun! Is it a good game? Sure, it's a wonderful game when you talk about the technology relative to the time period. I mean, the graphics are phenomenal for 1996. The water is very nice, and so are the effects. The music is great. It has that soft jazz feel that appeals to people that don't work in IGN. The sound effects are pretty good, such as the "blub" sound when you hit a buoy. Heh. Blub. Blub. Blub. The announcer is just as annoying as the guy in Pokemon Stadium, but having that many voice samples in a game is something not even Super Mario 64 achieved. The guy just needs to tone down his enthusiasm. It sounds terribly hokey. And yeah. The game's physics are good, what with the waves and the water and stuff.

But you know? Aesop was right. If you are unable to succeed in something, then you are more likely to pass it off as irrelevant, or not worth it. The same thing applies for video games, and it is something I had discussed in many earlier takes. Games in which an individual sucks at are more likely to be labeled "not fun" by that individual. Well, guess what? I SUCK at Wave Race 64. I have never been able to get used to the wave physics, and I never remember specific controls. I do well enough in Normal mode, but every other mode pwns me. I was never into jet-skiing games anyways, so I am more apt to become discouraged, and I say that the game is not fun. It's a vicious cycle, and apparently the game is the victim. Oh well. I have other things to complain about. I can't do stunts, so I don't like stunt mode. (Gee. What a surprise.) And this game would have been PERFECT if it had 4-player mode.Not that often, video games can really be very strong at the sea. Most of the time, there often misplaced, or even forgotten. Just like most racing games, they all seem to be exactly the same like yesterday's newspaper. In the case of Wave Race, it is a little bit different than meets the eye. Since the late 80's, jet skis became a popular kind of sport at sea. Nevertheless, it continues to inspire some of the most interesting games ever.
Wave Race 64, was the very first racing game made for the Nintendo 64, in 1996. The game remains a classic, featuring over 8 different race courses by sea. The courses range from a simple pond, to a frozen course called Glacier Bay. As you win each cup, the races get increasingly difficult. Although the game lacks some value, with only four racers to choose from, it still remains a staple for any N64 gamer.
While many people stopped buying Nintendo 64 games for quite a long time, due to the Gamecube, and Playstation 2, it does run up a faster time than most video game that require CD-ROM technology. Get this one, and start wave running away.Wave Race 64. One of Nintendo's first game. Updated from v1.1. Wow. Amazing. This game is fun. OK! Game over!
Wave Race 64 is a great game. You get 8 courses, 4 players, create your custom jet ski, go into a championship, play againts your best friend.... and it's over. Wave Race is nothing special. I can't kill it too hard because it was one of the first games, but it's just too short. You can only have 2 players max. Only 1 player Championship which is 4 EASY tracks. The custom made boards arn't really custom, you just choose between 3 factors, and you can do 3 tricks! (Which, during racing, give you no bonus except if you don't complete the trick, making you fall in the water and get behind) This game get's old within 1 hour. It is not worth the price, I can guarrantee you.When will people learn that stuffing 4 CD's full of Full Motion Video (FMV) does *not* make a video game?  X-Files:The Game is more like an interactive movie that a computer game.  This genre died with Night Trap on the Sega CD.  However, if you're an X-Files fan and enjoy a good 'whodunnit' this game is still a good buy (just try to find it on sale).I was so excited to play this game after I rented it from Blockbuster Video years ago. I played to death the awesome SNES title, "Yoshi's Island: Super Mario World 2" and thought Yoshi's Story would be like that game. As a matter of fact, many gamers thought so as well but once we all played through it, we realized that while it was good, it is nothing like the SNES classic. And along with a few other issues, Yoshi's Story is great for the kids to play but for everyone expecting a sequel to Yoshi's Island, it turned out to be bad.

Yoshi's Story was released in 1998 and was considered to be the spiritual successor to Yoshi's Island. Baby Bowser wrecks havoc in Yoshi's Island so you must defeat him to make everything alright. You control 8 different colored versions of Yoshi, the lovable dinosaur where for each stage you must search out different kinds of fruit. Find them all and you complete the stage and move on through the 24 stages that are available. The game ends when you die using all 8 colored Yoshis and you must restart the stage again. After you are done with the Story mode, there's a Trial Mode (see how much of a high score you can get) and a Practice Mode (it's basically one level where you practice all of Yoshi's moves.)

The PROS: This game looked real good. The graphics are smooth, sharp and bright. The music is very cheery and fits the overall mood in Yoshi's Story while the sound effects are exactly what you expect to hear in this light hearted title. The controls are responsive so getting used to how Yoshi moves will be very easy. It's perfect for parents who have kids that are starting to discover and play video games.

The CONS: Those who are looking for the deep, action platforming action and challenging game play that Yoshi's Island brought to the SNES will be deeply, deeply saddened by what they find here. This game is BRUTALLY easy and just as you start to get into it, it's over. Yoshi's Story has 24 stages compared to the 50 stages plus 10 bonus stages featured in the SNES classic. The only thing you do in Yoshi's Island is eat fruit. There is no rescuing Baby Mario, no magical vehicle transformations, no red coins to collect or any incentive to achieve the 100% complete rating at the end of each stage other than to move to the next stage. Don't bother trying to unlock extra stages, modes, etc. because there is nothing there to begin with.

It took me 1 day to beat this game and after two more days, it was time for me to return it. I was disappointed that it was such a short and easy game. If you're a fan of Yoshi's Island, don't buy this thinking it's the sequel. Get it cheap only because you have kids and want to keep them entertained.I played this so much when I was younger, I'm only 18 now, but I saw it on here and HAD to buy it. I basically went through the levels so fast, and kind of got bored, the game wasn't as interesting as I used to think it was. One thing is that I try going through it so fast that I end up falling in one place and get so frusterated I give up, but over all.. great game for kids or people who are easily entertained. I still play on occasion.When Yoshi's Story was first released, a lot of people immediately dismissed it as either an inferior version of Yoshi's Island or simply a colossal disappointment.  Nowadays it seems people generally think the graphics are too cutesy (and they are but Yoshi's Island was guilty of the same thing, as much as I love the game).  However, much to my surprise, the actual platforming elements in Yoshi's Story are better than I was expecting, and the fact the game sticks to 2D side scroller instead of going 3D like Super Mario 64 was a decision I agree with.  For a while I actually thought Yoshi's Story WAS a 3D game.

However, graphics aside, the game isn't *always* impressive.  A few of the levels are maze-like and they're pretty bland compared to the more straight forward levels.  It's because the platforms themselves are nothing particularly impressive- just your average platforms you've probably experienced since the NES days.  Jump on top of them, ride them, jump to next one, etc.  Not that I'm criticizing platforms I hope you understand or contradicting what I say in the opening paragraph- the idea just feels a little generic or perhaps undeveloped here.  Furthermore, these maze levels are lackluster compared to the more challenging ones from Yoshi's Island.  Feels too much like some of the maze stages here and trying to copy the special level from world 4 in Yoshi's Island with the water dripping inside what looks like a sewer.

Perhaps the biggest problem is that instead of collecting 10 red coins, 5 flowers and 30 stars which made Yoshi's Island gameplay so addicting and fun, now you're collecting fruit.  Grapes, watermelon, bananas, etc.  This is not only a rather childish objective, but not *nearly* as entertaining either.  Also, another big problem, perhaps an even bigger one- there's no flower ring at the end of each stage like in Yoshi's Island.  You can actually exit stages the moment you find enough fruit.  Really bad idea, because it means going through levels in search of fruit and nothing else, and when you find the amount you need for completion... the level could possibly end right then.  The sunburnt-looking flower in the top left corner of the screen jerking his face left to right the entire game is pretty funny though!

The boss fights are an absolute joke.  Similar to the one from Mario Is Missing.  Alright the ones here aren't quite *that* disappointing (if you've ever played Mario Is Missing though, at least the NES version, you'd know what I'm referring to!) but they are soooooo much easier than the Yoshi's Island boss fights.  Significantly less strategic as well.

Oh and yeah, we can't end a review without mentioning this issue as well- there's only 24 levels.  How many levels were there in Yoshi's Island?  48, plus 6 bonus levels (plus 6 more if you factor in the GameBoy advance version).  24 is too little!  Come on, the Nintendo 64 cartridges can handle more than that.  I remember how disappointing my classmates were in 1998 when this game came out and they played it.  They expected more levels.  I can't blame them.

Anyway, onto the positives.  Many of the Yoshi's Islands enemies make a return, and despite the levels being considerably less detailed as far as item-collecting and variety is concerned, most of the stages are at least loaded with plenty of enemies.  Even when the levels feel pretty basic and uninteresting in design, you can look forward to remembering the good ol' Yoshi's Island days with the same enemies, and now presented slightly bigger in size.  Plenty of new enemies too, such as Grim Reaper Shy Guy's, extended ghosts of many varieties that serve as odd short term platforms, and spike-tossing Lakitus.

Perhaps one could complain that the returning enemies should be different in some way instead of simply copy and pasting them from Yoshi's Island, and I would agree don't get me wrong, but it's not a big problem.  I like the gigantic-sized Mario eating fish that's not quite the same one from Super Mario Bros. 3, but the idea is exactly the same- he jumps out of the water and tries to eat Mario.  Yes it's hard just like it was in SMB3, but tons of fun!  He's like a huge red (or orange) Cheep Cheep and yeah, he doesn't like Mario too much, haha.

The music is actually much better than Yoshi's Island too.  Yoshi's Island had one particularly annoying theme that some of the sky stages would present (that I like to call Broadway theater music- ugh, so inappropriate for a Mario title) but the ones in Yoshi's Story are softer and more like lullabies, or tropical-themed but still totally tolerable.  There's even a Christmas-sounding theme used in the final levels.

This game is just not that bad.  Sure the platforming often times could have benefited by being less generic and obviously we expect more from Nintendo in that regard, and the maze levels are a needless and shameful way of making stages longer, but these problems aside, if you can find this game for cheap (and most likely that's impossible unless you can download it to your Wii or Wii U) then it's worth a few dollars and a few hours of entertainment.  Overall it's an easy game, even the later levels, and the appearance of the backgrounds may be rather baby-like, but remember Yoshi's Island has similar graphics and everyone considers that game a classic (including me, it *is* a classic!)  Check out Yoshi's Story.This game wasn't the best game I've ever played.  It was a change though since Mario wasn't the star of this game (Mario's Story? O_o  Okay I'll shut up).  Since Yoshi was the main character, I thought it would be adorable when I saw it ...  When I brought it home to play, I sat there for hours playing it.  I thought the little Yoshi characters were just plain adorable.  Then my brother played it.  He was around 4 or 5 at the time.  He absolutely loved it.  I wasn't too impressed by it.  But, I guess this is a great game for the younger generations.  If you have a younger brother/sister/son/daughter/etc., get this game for them.  They'll have a blast.Not quite what I remember, but lets face it I was about 10 when I last played this game. Got to love the throwback games.Game was in ok shape, was not told there was a sticker on the back and black marker on the cartridge. Not thrilled about thisTHIS GAME IS VERY DARK. Turn up the brigness on your tv before you play it. Never play if you're easily depressed:-( Ranges from very easy to very impossible. I don't even know if it's worth buying unless you're a collector. You could probably find it for very little because it's a Player's Choice awarded game.I love the tomb raider series,except for this one!!!!! It's way to hard and it won't let you save unless you find a save crystle. After that, I switched to the pc vesion which has unlimited saves but there is only one problem...IT'S TO OLD FOR WINDOWS XP!!So buy at own risk but if you want to play it and you have an old computer I recommend the pc version.Tomb Raider 3 was by far the most difficult Tomb Raider I have ever played. I'll admit, I used every cheat in the book in order to beat the game. But can you really blame me?
The game first starts off with an incredibly difficult jungle level, in which you have the option of finding a few secrets and then beginning the level, but regardless, you'll be jumping to a slope and then jumping over a set of spikes, and then (surprise!) jumping over another set of spikes, and finally landing at the bottom with a save crystal and a bunch of different directions to go. Don't go into the sinking sand and watch out for anything that looks dangerous because chances are, it'll be the last dangerous think you look at.
Finally, after a period of a week to a year, you've finally beat the jungle levels... WITHOUT CHEATS! Well I bet you were quite tempted! Now choose your destination. The strategy guides all tell you to go to the Nevada Desert, and then to the South Pacific, and then London. If you watch the entire "Story So far..." feature, you'll notice that the game plays the scenes with South Pacific first and Nevada Desert last. So nobody cares what order you do it in, it doesn't matter much. And believe me; you WILL get frustrated either way, so go to the one you want to go to first because it will take you FOREVER to finish that section of levels.
Finally, after God-knows-how-long, you finished the whole globe, and get this; you did it ALL WITHOUT CHEAT CODES! I congratulate you. NOW WE GET TO GO TO ANTARTICA!!!
Yippee.
Antarctica is incredibly difficult, and it ends with a big, mumbo-jumbo mother-of-all-spiders human-headed thing. Oh, and one shot with the rocket launcher just won't kill it! And one thing to keep on mind, one-hit K.O. As in, if it hits you once, it will kill you. Good luck!
But in spite of all of that, I really enjoyed seeing Lara in new costumes and playing in her new house. It was a lot of fun to get the racetrack key and find the shortcut at the racetrack. I must say, I really did enjoy Tomb Raider 3.
If you like challenges, then Tomb Raider 3 is definitely for you. And regardless, the Mansion is definitely worth the 5 dollars that Tomb Raider 3 now cost at Game Crazy. But, if you're anything like me and do not enjoy getting so frustrated over a horribly pixilated British woman in a jungle tomb, then get ready to memorize "L2, R2, L2(2), R2, L2, R2, L2, R2, L2(4), R2, L2, R2(4), L2" if you want to beat this game!It's not that this game is bad, it's just too hard. The levels consist of timed events e.g. flip a switch and run to the other end of the level before a door closes.
The graphics are good as is the music. The story is non-existent though. Something about aliens, and it includes one of the worst and shortest endings in all of Video Game history.
It's fun yet frustrating.
Graphics: 8/10
Sound: 7/10
Control: 7/10
Fun: 4/10The Good: Great graphics, good sense of humor, torturing enemies is fun

The Bad: Unforgiving difficulty, collecting lives is impossible

Wild 9 is developed by those wonderful guys as Shiny who made Earth Worm Jim and MDK. First off, forget the story. The whole story is told in a three pages in the booklet. You play this kid who has this thing on his arm and it releases this energy that can grab enemies and smack them around. You're actually supposed to torture enemies such as throwing them in giant grinders, spike pits etc. You also have to sometimes throw them in a spike pit and use them as stepping-stones, it's very funny.

The graphics are really good for a PS1 game with bright colors, and smooth textures. You can collect coins for extra life, but I found this impossible. There are 99 in each level and you have to get every single one to get another life. So, if you run out of lives you'll be restarting the level constantly. The game is very unforgiving, but if you're good at these games you won't mind. The game controls very well and isn't slippery, unresponsive for slow. Everything is quick and simple. So, if you want a good platformer for your PSP or your PS2, or hey! Even your PS3 pick up Wild 9.I used to play this game quite often when I was a kid. But I was never really good at it. Though I used to like it I don't really care for it anymore.This is definetly the start of something good. The two later Super Star Wars games were a lot more forgiving than this title, simply because the "Inside the Sandcrawler" stage is extremely difficult, due to difficult enemies and more difficult jumps ( it wouldn't surprise me if Luke's 'double jump' in the later games came after negative feedback here). If you manage to get past the sandcrawler stage, you're in for a very fun game, particularly when you're allowed to choose characters- Luke, Han or Chewie. Perversely, that Sandcrawler stage is the hardest in the game- and it's the 4th level! I recommend this game for the patient, skilled gamer.This features a totally different button configuration that people were used to with Street Fighter 2 games. It also offers some very intense fighting with blood, bone breaking moves and a single fatality for each of the seven kombatants. You play as Liu Kang, Sub Zero, Scorpion, Sonya Blade, Kano, Rayden and Johnny Cage, and fight your way up through a ladder tournament. Eventually fighting in a handicapped match against two people (one after the other), and working your way to the boss Shang Tsung who can take the form of anyone! However infront of Tsung awaits the four armed 8 foot tall bodyguard known as Goro, who is the biggest challenge of the game. Good luck! A huge downfall of the game for the SNES and Sega is that there are no fatalities, instead you need a special code to enable them.Mortal Kombat was released in arcades in 1992. The game feautured digitized actors as the fighters, realistic fighting, bloody moves and outrageous finishing moves. Unfortunately when Nintendo allowed Acclaim to release a SNES version of the game, they forced the release of a "softer" version of the game. The blood was removed and the fatalities were down-graded. As a result Nintendo suffered big losses in game sales compared to the Genesis version, which included everything from the arcade. Whatever the case, along with Street Fighter II and Virtua Fighter, Mortal Kombat is considered a landmark in the history of fighting games.
Graphics and sound-wise, the SNES version is the best home conversion available. It manages to duplicate almost every animation and background detail from the arcade. The fighters look big and very realistic and have fluid animation. The sound effects are good and the music sounds like something out of an old kung fu movie, which is nice. It creates a true oriental atmosphere.
Controls are a bit harder to stomach. Although the special moves are a breeze to perform, the simple actions such as walking and jumping don't respond like you would want them too. It makes the fighters feel a bit awkward and down-to-earth, literally. If you get Rayden crouching in a corner, just go near him and start punching low. He won't be able to get out of that situation! That's not good for the game, balance-wise.
There are seven fighters who are Johnny Cage, Kano, Rayden, Liu Kang, Scorpion, Sub-Zero and Sonya Blade. A few of them look quite different from their newer incarnations. The hidden fighter is Reptile, and the bosses are Goro and Shang Tsung. A very old Shang Tsung, I might add. You see, this was before Shao Kahn restored his youth... Each kombatant has one fatality, which is a tamer version of its arcade counterpart. For example, Johnny Cage's decapitating uppercut is replaced with a weird "spear kick". The blood has become dust. Yes, I said dust.
While this game is not as exciting as MK2 and MK3 (mainly due to the limited number of moves), it can still hold its own as a solid, realistic SNES fighting game. SNES owners looking for a worthwhile game to play for their now-dead system should buy this, especially if you are a MK fan. If not, I'd suggest you spend the money on Street Fighter II or SF2 Turbo.When Killer Instinct became a smash hit on the Super NES, it seemed inevitable that a stripped down conversion would come to the GameBoy.  This portable version of Killer Instinct is missing a fighter or two, but the graphics and overall gameplay remain remarkably faithful to it's arcade and 16-bit counterpart.  The two button control scheme makes the crazy multi-hit combos easier than ever before to pull off, but special moves themselves can be a pain to do.  Not to mention due to the fact this is a game for the original black and white GameBoy the graphics are very hard to see, especially if the background arena is dark.  Some of this can be corrected thanks to a lighting option offered in the game's option screen, but problems still persist.  All in all, Killer Instinct may not be the same great fighter it was in the arcades and on home systems, but it is one of the better original GameBoy fighters available.When this game first came out i did not have a snes so i had to watch my friend down the road play it and i never got to spoiled. Well its about 20 years later and i am about to beat it and am pretty disappointed. The game is way to easy I played it for like one week at nights and Im already to Gannon. I played the first one right before link to the past and it took much longer and was much more satisfying exploring and beating the dungeons even though graphically inferior. A link to the past is a beautiful looking and sounding snes game but there just not enough to explore and its to easy especially the puzzles so easy. I cant believe im done with the game I pretty much don't even feel like going ahead and finishing off gannon. I would recommend links awakening on the gameboy and gameboy color way better game in every aspect its how link to the past should have ben.It's okay, but I still don't see why everyone talks about this game.  All I hear online is it's so great, and maybe they just gave me way to high of expectations, but it's not as good as I'd hoped.Like most others who might've already discovered, this Nintendo 64 - video game is pretty much for kids (ages 4 to 10). But that doesn't necessarily mean that (m)any adults couldn't get a certain amount of enjoyment out of it. The player(s) have a chance to race on several different tracks - like a dinosaur valley, an ice track, a volcano island, etc. Have to admit that the graphics to the kid's game is really quite good - at least I thought so. Can easily switch over to this game to kill - say maybe thirty minutes.Diddy Kong Racing is an awesome concept: an adventure game mixed with a racing game. Throw in some cute characters, cool bosses, three different vehicles, huge racing courses and some sweet secrets and you've got yourself an awesome game, right? Well...yes and no.
I loved this game when I was a kid. Diddy Kong Racing was the first game I bought for the N64 (in fact, it was the reason I purchased an N64). I played this non-stop then, beating the entire game, unlocking all the secrets, then beating the whole game again. Then I moved onto different games, and DKR fell by the wayside.
So, a few days ago, I decided to pop it in, for the nostalgia factor (and also to see if it was still any fun). I started a new game, and found the first track. So far, I was having fun, probably due to the nostalgia, but so far so good. Then I got into my first race. I was greeted by horrible controls- it felt like my character was sliding along on ice. I managed to finish the race in first place, soundly beating my CPU opponents, even with the controls. I thought to myself "This isn't how I remember DKR...maybe I'll play some more." So, I play for a few more hours, beating the world and the level boss. The controls have gotten slightly better, but are still very loose. The cheesy music is grating on my nerves, as are the annoying super-cutesy characters. I finally turn the game off, deciding too let my fond memories of the game remain intact.
In 1997, Diddy Kong Racing was revolutionary. Today, it stands as a failed idea. Still, I hope that some developer can take the basic idea of DKR and craft a decent kart racer around it. I really like the adventure game aspects of DKR; but the poor multiplayer and the loose controls are huge turn-offs. Ultimately, you'd be better off buying Mario Kart 64 if you need a racing game for your N64. I give DKR points for originality; it's just that the execution is way off the mark.I LIKE PLAYING THIS GAME ITS NOT AS HARD AS THE OTHER MORTAL KOMBAT GAMES AND ITS A FUN GAME IM GLAD I BOT ITdo have no life?do you enjoy wandering aimlessly through hundreds of tiny dark rooms looking for switches only all the rooms look exactly alike?got a lot of time on your hands?then this is the game for you.the weopons rule! of course unless you cheat they're never there when you need them.the fighting and shooting up dinosaurs is cool but all the wandering and guessing sucks.i had the most fun just cheating by putting in stuff to make all the weopons there and all of them infinitely loaded.even with total immunity to death youll still just search and search and still won't beat it.unless you're infinitely patient.This version of Mortal Kombat was a complete letdown to most fans,because of it's lack of blood and gore. That's not the only bad thing that this port had going for it. The gameplay was just awful! The character movements were very slow and could be very choppy. The Genesis version had SO much better gameplay compared to this. Most of the fatalities were changed to less graphic "finishing bonuses".Alot of the die hard MK fans were really pissed off about that too. Although I DID think that Sub-Zero's and Raiden's "Finishing Bonuses" WERE pretty cool. The two best things that this game has to offer are great graphics and really good sound/music. All the animations are here too. Everything from the floating clouds in the background's sky,to Shang Tsung clapping his hands,after a round is over. All the sounds are also included,that the Genesis version did not have. Overall...this is an okay version,if you can ignore the lack of blood n gore,the censored fatalities and the bad gameplay. If not,then stay with Genesis.Is that pretty much the entire game was based of the movie "Bloodsport" with Jean Claude Van Damme. And as you may know, they filmed actual people to do the moves in the game to give it a realistic look, well they originally wanted Jean Claude to be Johny Cage. You may have noticed Johny Cage wearing the exact same outfit as Van Damme did in the movie, and also having the same moves, mainly the splits nut shot. Anyways, Van Damme turned the role down due to other obligations, but I found it very interesting anyways.

The arcade game was insane, I can remember the massive lines at the arcades to play it. You would have to wait a good 30 mins to get your turn, and if you knew the fatalities, you were golden. I only knew sub zeros, which was my favorite so i was fine with that. The gore was so awesome back then, it hadnt been done before so you can imagine the frenzy.

Unfortunatley, the SNES screwed us all over and censored the best aspect of the game. Imagine buying this expecting something you know to be awesome, only to see everything you love about something to be completly changed. Lets be honest, the actual fighting in Mortal Kombat is not really good. Its not fast paced and does not require much use of tactics. Street Fighter had it beat in that department. What it had going for it was the graphics and extreme gore. Take away the gore, and at least half the game is in the toilet.I played this as a kid when I was four and five. I got it for my son who is 4 and learned really quick this was way too complicated for him to play. I tried it out and was horrible. I was much better at this as a kid and I was floored by how much harder it was for me to playMortal Kombat, back in 1991, dominated the arcade scene and gave Street Fighter II a run for its money. So when news broke that it was coming out for the SNES and Genesis consoles, everyone rejoiced and the bragging rights for best version of this game was up for grabs. When the dust cleared, it was obvious each version had its pros and cons.

For the SNES this was, for the most part, a faithful port of the arcade game. It had all the stages and the "Test Your Might" mini-games, the original music, the original characters plus the secret character and the end boss, Shang Tsung. The graphics were crisp and clear while the music sounded just like in the arcade game; controls were easy to get used like in the arcade game. However, the game came heavily censored; the blood was changed to look like sweat. Some of the fatalities were toned down considerably and replaced with "non violent" finishing moves (Kano, Sub Zero, Johnny Cage and Raiden.) They even went as far as to make sure you could not send anyone through the spikes at one stage that takes place on top of a bridge when you wanted to fulfill the requirement to fight the secret character, Reptile. The controls, while easy to get used to, were slightly changed from the arcade game and some of the basic moves were taken out entirely.

So it was a major gamble for Nintendo that didn't pay off; the Genesis version, while regarded as inferior to the SNES version because of its fuzzy graphics and featured different music for the stages, had the gore and fatalities available as long as you entered a secret code. Sales wise, it beat out the SNES version as punishment for the backlash against Nintendo's family friendly policy.

Pick this one up only for nostalgic reasons as Mortal Kombat II, is the sequel and better game and it came out fully uncensored.I must admit I have never been a huge Mortal Kombat fan, I obtained this game from my brother not working when he was moving.  I got it working and played it at bit to my surprise no blood!  I personally could care less about this because honestly I never cared about the gore factor anyway.  Aside from that and I know for some this is a major buzz kill, the game looks great and moves are easy to pull off just like another reviewer said.  However two major down flaws your character's walks and jumps aren't very fluent.  Also it seems kind of slow I remember this game being a bit faster, the game looks wise is amazing however (given the time context and the original arcade version).  To be honest tho I remember this game in the arcades and not being a fan really I say this one is the best.  I have 2 and 3 on an arcade classic pack for Gamecube and the controls are pretty bad as well and the matches end fast.  So all and all if you have the patients for this game and you don't mind the no blood and some what shoty movements you will want this game.  As for me I mark it as just your average fighting game for it's time.  I would suggest over this game Street Fighter Turbo!Another one of square softs RPG but certainly not one of there best. On the other hand it is quite challenging and most certainly long.
You have your choice of 7 differn't characters with 7 differn't stories. Red, Blue, Asellus, Riki, Tz60G, Lute and Emelia. Varying from mage, to robot and even a couple of just plain fighters.  Each one has its own storyline and missions, with its own ending.
PROS: Graphics and music go together nicely, Challenging and interesting storylines. One of its strongest points is the combo's your characters can do. As you select which tactic of battle you want each member of your party to do it can create combos that can inflict serious amounts of damage. Saving anyplace is one of the best things about this game!
CONS: With over 140 hours of game play it gets very repeditive. Granted each character has differn't story lines, most end up taking the same quests.  A bit on the dull side after you have beat a few of the heros.
In a nutshell this is a good game. Certainly one that I recomend you beat one character or even two, then put it away for a while so you don't become sick of it.See, the Problem with this game is the choppy frame rate, the less then average graphics, and the poorly control system. They contribute to this game sucking compaired to its Arcade predicessor, If you want Daytona USA on your Sega Saturn, Pick up Championship Circuit Edition, It has 2 extra tracks, more cars, better graphics, 3D controller support, New soundtrack, better frame rate with less frame skip and the tracks are actualy labeled ;)

Overall, this game was a shameful port but not completely terrible, it goes for about 5 bucks so its worth the money. but if you have 5 more dollars pick up Daytona USA CCE.Even to this day DAYTONA USA is my favorite Arcade game. It's still even found in arcades around the world ten years or so after it was released. The arcade may only have 3 tracks to choose from, but it is it's multi player compedativeness that has given it it's awsome fun.

But bringing this game to the PC and Satrun did not bring the fun factor with it. It was pretty much the same game. There was a horse you could get if you won all races in a row (the arcade you actualy got a FWD type of car!) but the fun factow with the PC and Saturn versions where not there. The saturn version was only 2 players if you could hook it up to another Saturn.. and the PC version I think had a network game you could go to using the net, but I never tried it.

It was too hard to control the cars with joypads, and even using a steerwheel joypad if you had one didn't make it anywhere near as much fun as the Arcade.This game is fun, but it is very overrated. It has not aged very well, and the game feels sloppy, compared to how revolutionary it was when it came out.There's nothing technically wrong with DKC3:DK'sDT.  I mean, it's a great platformer, but it has a tendancy to seem more like a chore than actual fun.  Dixie Kong returns front-and-center from her co-starring role in Diddy's Kong Quest, and nothing's changed about her.  That's good news because she can still whack enemies with her hair and glide like a helicopter.  That's bad news because she can't take-out some bigger enemies, so she needs the help of her overweight brat, Kiddy Kong.Well this is a very old game, that was released for the PSone system. It was re-released, on another console. As one of the first games in the series, it did a good job. It is nearly impossible to find in any store now. Used or new.

Gameplay: This game is a lot like Tales of Phantasia. It's a linear battle system with small sprites running around, attacking with swords or magic. There is not just one mage or sword wielder in this game. The style is that of all the other games, just earlier. If that makes any sense.

Graphics: Not bad for an old PS game, it was awesome in its' time. Now though, it would not go very far, as it has pixels, and not awe-inspiring graphics.

Characters: The characters were cute. Not as good as later Tales game characters. These characters could not talk, but they had talking swords, which was pretty cool.

Storyline: Basically, like all RPG and all Tales series games. Save the world scenario. Which, for some odd enough reason, never seems to grow old. The characters each have their own story and backgrounds, so it is cool to look into them. If you want to purchase this game, I would suggest to buy the remake if at all possible.As a first-person shooter enthusiast, I had high hopes for Dark Forces when I hear about it for the first time.

And as it may be a sin to compare it to Doom, because honestly and truthfully, this game is hardly what Doom is, I must say one thing....take Doom, send it through a meat grinder, out pops Dark Forces.

Everything in this game is ho-hum....half or less than half of what Doom gives the Playstation gamer.

It's not THAT disappointing....it's still very fun to play....but the whole game seems rushed. People forgot to add more than 3 colors to walls and background images, and the pixelization is unsurpassed. Stormtroopers and items laying about look like primitive Lego models. The soundtrack isn't all that bad, but could be better....the voices are really done well though.

The levels in the game are ok....I found myself getting lost on some of them though due to the fact everything looks the same because of the limited color palette....and even some areas I'm guessing are supposed to be covered in "shadows" are in all actuality, just black spaces with no graphics at all.

The weapons are typical Star Wars guns....nothing entirely special, but it is a fun selection.

If you're a Star Wars fan, and can get this game for 5 bucks or less, by all means, add it to your collection.

But if you're a first-person shooter junkie, look elsewhere for a top-quality shooter.

Overall, an average game, 5 out of 10, possibly 5.5.Ok.  This game came out in the mid 90's, but even for then, it's an average game.  Nothing stands out to make it a "must have" for the Star Wars fan and gamer.
Graphically, it's a step down from the old Doom days.  Characters are made of HUGE sprites--The closer you get, the more blocky they are.  Backgrounds/levels are huge, but poorly done.  Most levels are just plain boring and the colors are extremely dull looking.
The sound, out of everything, is fairly good.  Effects and voices are above that average level.  The music, though, is a disappointment.  This is a 32-bit game with an 8-bit soundtrack.  One thing in every Star Wars movie that's done well with pride is the music score.  All Star Wars games should be no different than the movies with the same score.  This game is one of those games where the music is just plain bad.
Fun value is on the average level, as well.  Where most everything is dull, the enjoyment of blasting Stormtroopers, Probe Droids, etc. is fun for every Star Wars fan.
If you enjoy first person shooters and the Star Wars movie series, then give it a try.  It's cheap money-wise, however, it's just that, as well (gameplay-wise)--cheap.FRIST THING IS THE FIGURES IN THIS GAME ARE COOL AND REAL.BUT WHERE IS THE REAL WRESTLEMANIA MUSIC.BRET HARTS MUSIC IS ONLY 5 SCONDS HELL EVEYBODY MUSIC IN THIS GAME IS 5 SCONDS.AND AT THE END OF THIS GAME. THE MUSIC DOESN'T SOUND LIKE THE REAL THING. BUT IT IS FUN TO PLAY.I don't see games like this anymore where the characters speak as they do.  This is one of those classic games that appeal to collectors.this game is old, ill give it that, but its still no where near as entertaining as its followup game, bloodlines, which is actually very fun and has a decent replay factor. This game engine, along with dynamics and over all suckage makes for a waste of money. even for a walking down video game memory lane.This game has a lot of good things going for it.

The graphics were really great for its time, and even now still look good...at least on the main characters.  The story, while not great, is still far above the average for a videogame.  The same can be said about the voice acting.

And probably most importantly, the game is *fun*.  Or at least it starts out that way.  By the time you get a 3-4 character party, the game's horrible AI and pathfinding are irritatingly obvious.

For starters, you have the choice between your allies sitting there doing nothing while you're in a fight, or them running off on their own through half the level in search of something to fight (and biting off more than they can chew and dying).  Babysitting them is extremely tedious, especially when you switch to control one from running off on his own, only to have another one do the exact same thing.

Pathfinding is awful.  Going around a corner and through a door and getting your entire party to go along is more difficult than any boss in the game (and some of them are fairly difficult).  On top of it, your allies will buff themselves with every spell they have (consuming blood...one of the resources you have to maintain at a decent level or suffer bad consequences/death) at the sight of so much as a rat.  There is an option to make it so they only auto-cast from a short list of spells (that you choose), but apparently the option is bugged and doesn't work.

In the end, I found it easier to go through a level with just one character. I left the rest behind, only using them to store equipment and for boss encounters.  That's how bad it is.

It's a shame because the character advancement system is very customizeable, and I would have liked to play the game multiple times to try things different each time.  However the annoying AI has sapped any replayability the game might have held.Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force is an fps with a great story driven single player gameplay and built on the fantastic quake III arena engine. It has a good storyline with perfect voice acting and a pretty good AI. I played it on the default opengl video mode and the game runs very smoothly. The graphics are fantastic, the xen like alien levels look very georgeous, sound recording is good. charecter animation are great, crew members look very life like. The level load times are good and save games do not eat up disk space. The length of ellite force is just right and it has a great multiplayer and single player tournament gameplay. The gameplay is good, but mostly you are playing with the AI team members and it is quite bad. The level design is good and there are lots of great puzzles to be solved, Action gameplay is slightly dissapointing as some of the levels are very linear and some of them are very difficult. I did not like the selection of weapons in ellite force, they are very badly done, their effects are very disspointing, almost all weapons just shoot a straight line of colored light. Star Trek Voyoger: Ellite Force is the best star wars based game ever made but i wish it was a little better as it is devoloped by raven software.If this were a review purely about content, then Redemption would get a well deserved 5 stars.  Unfortunately, the technical problems drag the entire game down.
The bad:
Horrible pathing!  Your party members block you all t he time and walls trap you sometimes.  In Neverwinter Nights, party members would just scoot out of the way when you needed to get by them.  In Redemption, you need to move around your party.  I can deal with that, except you're constantly put in scenarios where your 4 party group is traveling through a tight corridor, and needing to go backwards is a nightmare.  I finally gave up and switched control to the lagging member and used that character to move back.
In most other games I've played, you could just 'shove' characters other characters out of your way.  That's the best way about it, because when you're mid-fight, the last thing you want to do is reposition a stubborn party member who just won't get out of your way.  Absolutely abismal pathing in this game.
There's not much pizazz to the weapons and armor available, either.  Guns and ranged weapons are pretty useless in the game, and I've found sticking with the good old shield and sword works better.  Again, I blame the developers.
There is little to none available as far as support, and I've only found one patch so far.
The Good:
This game contains THE MOST engaging, engrossing and interesting plotlines I've seen in a game.  The story content is unparalleled.  You follow Cristof Romuald, a crusader knight of the dark ages who fights in the crusades.  He is wounded and nursed back to health in medeival Prague by the beautiful nun, Anezka.  You begin the game playing Cristof as a human, and you follow the character through his Embrace and change into vampiric state.
The game is based on White Wolf's 'Vampire: the Masquerade' and 'Vampire: the Dark Ages' tabletop RPG books.  The designers of Redemption did a good job of bringing WW's material into the game, and do so in a way that is pleasing to a V:tM fan yet still easy for a beginner to digest.  As the plot continues in the game, Christof's sire and friends explain to him about the vampire clans, vampire origins, etc. etc.  I had my doubts about getting this game because I doubted a game could do justice to WW's publications, but after playing it, you really can't help but enjoy the story.
Basically, you play Christof through the ages and travel through Prague, Vienna, London, and modern day New York.  He's basically on a path to redemption (thus the name of the game is Redemption), and depending on how humanely you act throughout the game, you may or may not receive redemption.  (A humanity score is kept.)
With the gaining of experience points, you can buy skill points, and with enough skill points (strength, dexterity, intelligence, charisma, etc.), you can buy discipline points.  That's where the real fun is at- the disciplines (vampire powers).
Multiplayer is ok.  I heard Redemption's multiplayer capabilities referred to as "Neverwinter Nights Lite."  There's not much by way of video-gaming you can do on multiplayer, but you can hold campaigns and assign a storyteller.  The storyteller holds GM powers and can access each player's advancement menu to grant exp, control players, speak through players, spawn items, and kill or revive players.  So if you'd like an alternative to tabletop and currently play V:tM, you can definitely check this out.
This game is definitely roleplay heavy, and they speak in Ye Olde English (at least Christof and Anezka do).  It's not to say it's corny, though.  They may say "thee," "thou," "thy," and "hath," but the dialogue and voice acting is *fantastic*.
Despite the (inexcusable) technical problems, Redemption offers the richest content and voice acting I've seen in a game.
I truly hope that game developers will pick up V:tM to base another game on, and hopefully, they'll do justice to all the fabulous content they put in it by making it sufficiently playable.
It's really worth picking up if you're like me and are more an RPG fan than a hack and slash powergamer.  If you want a game with a rich story, this one won't disappoint in that aspect.  But be warned of the pathing, lack of support, and other gameplay issues.It's just typical.  That's the word of the day, it seems.  Typical.  Too many similar games available these days.  This means you really don't need to bother with most of them, and unfortunately, this is just another game you can skip over if you wish.

While the storyline is good, what you mainly do in Kings Field is walk around with a sword finding items hidden in treasure chests and... no, it's not Zelda.  It mine as well be, though.  Nah, it's not really a rip-off.  I don't know what it's supposed to be, but I think the game was a bit too heavy on finding important items.  It needed more action.I just got done playing Duke Nukem: "Land of the babes" and noticed a few reviewers where saying that game was nowhere near as good as Time To Kill or the other title. So after enjoying Land of the Babes, I couldn't wait to get into this one and see what made it so much better? But to my disappointment... what the heck makes it any different or better????

This one here I say is pretty much the same game as Land of the Babes, apart from different stages and a few enemies, only a small amount of guns are different from the other title, but none the less, they could easily have both been part of the exact same game.

Now, I'm not bagging this game, don't get me wrong, but I think it's just as equal to Land of the Babes. Maybe this one stands out a little more because some stages resemble that of Zero Hour on the Nintendo 64, but lets be honest, Zero Hour is a far superior game on every level. Literally.

Maybe Time to Kill requires a bit more searching around to get through levels, that part may be a little bit harder, but in the end, I felt like I had played the same game twice, and was a little bored by the end of it. By the time I blew away the final boss, I expected the ending to be disappointing, and low and behold, possibly the most disappointing ending in Duke Nukem history.

Of coarse, maybe had I been playing this 10 years ago or around the time this game came out, maybe it might have seemed a lot better at the time... but no wait, Zero Hour was made too, and that game rocked my world... but this one here, euhhh, I can see why some might like it better than Land of the Babes, but it's only by a small fraction.

Overall, if you play another DN title on the PS1 before this, you may think either "Ummm, this is the same game" or "Oh, goodie! More levels!".This game is one of the good thriller's i've ever come across. It's a cooooool game with a good storyline but once the story ends the games over. I didn't feel like playing it more than once.
About the  problem people are having with the save game feature -all they have to do is press the "Esc" button on their keyboard and a box will appear asking them whether they wanna save their game or quit. So whenever u wanna save your game during game play at given time hit "Esc" on the keyboard and save your game, as soon as u do that u can continue with your game immediately. I didn't need to download any patches for the save game feature.
This game is a good buy. For those who haven't, try it.This is 1 of those rare games that is fun....but at the same time it [isn't good]...I myself, do not have this game but a friend of mine does and he plays it 24/7....i cant realy find anything i like in it accept finding downloads off websites...then playing with the new downloads for about 5 miniuts....then turning the game off....however muti-player is a blast and is probly the coolest part of the game...1 player is ok...you start out as a crusaider type dude in medevil ages....get bitten by a vampire...then all the sudden your in modern times. (which is kinda cool cause u can have midevil weapons and modern weapons) Another cool part in this game is all the different weapons you can get...Swords,Axes,Maces,Baseball bats,Shotguns,Machine guns,Chaninsaws, and just about any other weapon you can think of... Over all this game will keep you busy for about 2 weeks be4 it starts collecting dust next to "Age of Empires" and "The Sims"Awful AI, save and load problems, game interface is sometimes useless. I had expected much better from a Masquerade adaptation. The only positives are graphics and sounds, but not enough to save a boring game. Keep playing the pen and paper, and unless you are a world of darkness fanatic, spend your money for a better game!The Good: It was designed by Ravensoft (who have a lot of Id people on their team) and it's running off of the Q3 engine.  Graphically, it's gosh darn purty.  The lighting is superb and the architecture, creature designs, and weapon designs are all top-notch (as one would expect from Ravensoft). The only graphics niggle I have is that the mouths aren't made of polygons, but are synced bitmaps (of course, to date, Half-Life is the ONLY game to get that right).  The missions are, overall, interesting, with a nice mix between puzzle and action.  A lot of the missions include team members who are more than just grunts (many of the scripts work trigger individual members for individual tasks).  The puzzle missions are, for the most part, well designed and more interesting that the standard key-find quests that are typical to the genre.  The sound is very nice too, although I wish they had included explicit EAX support.  The one "stealth" mission, in particular, made good use of that.  Most of the weapons are quite interesting, with all of them featuring a secondary fire mode -- the default phasers, in particular, are very fun to use, I love beam weapons.  I especially liked the rationalization for the traditional FPS Bad o' Weapons: a portable replicator that you carry with you.  And finally, the Borg have that cool laser-eye thingie that's just oh-so-cool. :-)
The Bad: Well, it *is* Voyager.  For the most part, that didn't bother me, although the long (and uninterruptible) cinematics involving the REAL LIVE (tm) voices of various actors got on my nerves.  There's also a certain cloying PC-ness to the game that annoyed me, especially given that it IS, after all, an FPS.  The game's attempts to sanitize a massive kill-fest left me a bit woozy, at times.  The plot is also less than impressive, although (frankly) it was more interesting than most of the Voyager TV episodes I've seen, and it was more than adequate for a genre that is often allergic to the whole notion of plot.  There were certain points where the game suffered from "What do I do now?" syndrome, although nothing too bad (when it doubt, look for a tunnel to crawl into).  Likewise, on Voyager, the doors are unlabeled so one is often required to blunder around in the between mission phases.  On that note, some of the architecture is a bit "crowded".  This is especially true on Voyager where there are loads of fake doors that you can't enter (and I just HATE that in a game).  The game length is a bit short (but I've been spoiled by Half-Life, so take that with a grain of salt).  Finally, the great big bugaboo of most FPS's -- The AI: it sucked.  All too often, the game resorts to simply swarming you with enemies.  There were few cases where you couldn't even discern that there *was* any AI (although there were a couple of great skirmish sequences where the enemy actively sought refuge behind crates).  In terms of combat, much of the game resembles Doom.
Overall, I enjoyed it.  I'd recommend it if (like me) you're feeling a bit starved for a decent FPS.  Just don't blow any significant amount of money on it.I've never played Vampire in tabletop roleplay so I'm not quite sure how  true the game was to its predescessor. But it was still a very good  introduction to the system for me.  I learned about magic and lore and the  differences between a ghoul and a vampire and a human.
The main  character, Christof, was very interesting to play.  My first nervous twinge  about playing a vampire themes games was "Ew... so I'm going to play a  bloodthirsty commando?" but as I progressed through the chapters I  found that I was in control of my own destiny.  I could try to be kind and  just or I could be as  cruel a jerk as I wanted.
There were some  annoyances like the lack of saves and the utter confusion of combat and  lack of tactics (You pretty much just mobbed a monster with everything you  had and hoped it was enough) but I've heard that this will change soon with  a patch.
The game progresses from the days of the crusades to modern  times.  I didn't care much for the time jump (It would have been much  cooler to slowly progress through time to modern ages) but that might have  made the game ten times longer that it was, so that's just a small  gripe.
The characters of Christof, the holy knight turned Vampire, and  his love Anezka, whom he searches for out of guilt and out of love are  wonderfuly done and made the story more real.  The dialogue was well  written and made up for the messily done hack and slash fests one must take  to progress through each level.
Another really great feature is the  multiplayer capabilities.  One of the things that makes it so great is that  a person has the option to be a game master in an adventure and control  just about everything.  It's really great to be able to craft your own  games and so far this has been the first one I've ever seen with this  option instead of running Quake-like through a maze and killing everybody  in sight.
Overall there were some innovative options in this game and it  was well put together, just the combat was a little confusing at times and  the lack of saving points made it difficult.  Still, I think that the good  points outweigh the bad.Okay, there is one thing indisputably spectacular about this game: the graphics. There's no arguing this fact, they're absolutely awesome with incredible cutscenes and very smooth performance--no jerking movements or  dialogue skipping. Transitions are seamless and the whole effect  compliments the game fantastically well, Nihilistic did not turn this into  a graphics symposium and you won't lose the plot in their  splendor.
Unfortunately, that's about the only really wonderful point  about the whole game. Don't get me wrong, I didn't find anything tragically  flawed about the experience, this -is- a very fun game, especially after  having played the pen-and-paper version for so long. There is a solid plot  behind the entire thing, and interesting dialogue (though it gets a bit  pathetic at times, and I bordered on wanting to slay Christof myself as he  bemoaned his fate and forbidden love.) But is the plot particularly  inspired? No. Is the roleplay that engrossing? No--though, to be fair, I've  yet to find a game that really lives up to the what roleplaying ought to  be. Is the combat exhilerating? Not in the slightest.
Most of my  complaints revolve around the mechanics of the game. If you're looking  solely for an action-oriented game, skip it. Though it might bear some  resemblence to Diablo in the way combat is visually represented,  disciplines (read "spells" to those unversed in the White Wolf  lexicon) are cumbersome and trying to use them in the middle of combat is  almost more dangerous than it is helpful. The player is faced with  exceptionally little creative opportunity in combat situations... just keep  clicking on the bad guy, and try to stay out of the way of your team so  they can join in too. I never felt my heart jump into my throat, or my  stomach shrivel to the size of an orange when faced with combat in this  game like I have in others--it's just not that exciting.
The soundtrack  is good, but repetitive. After about ten minutes in a new area, I was  pretty much over it.
So, what the heck am I saying? This really -is- a  fun game, but it doesn't live up to the hype (which may be making me overly  critical, but I don't think so.) Go ahead, buy it, play it, you'll have a  great time; but don't expect to stay up all night into the wee hours of the  morn slaying evil ghouls and denizens of the night.Im sick to death of mario.  The ultimate best mario game is new Super Mario on DS.this game has alot of different weapons but it is a short game play with the unlimited continues that you can use witch makes it very easy takes about 2 hours to beat to find all of the eggs once you get the hang of the gameAs the first game in my SNES game collection, I had high hopes for it as I loved the movie it was based on. It uses a top down perspective while walking around the island and uses a 3D look a la Doom when exploring the various buildings and caves while offering you multiple weapons to use. It uses the likenesses of the dinosaurs and some of the main characters that appeared in the movie. The graphics, sounds and music are spot on and help you get into the game. It controls very easily and you get used to quickly. So why do I give this game 3 stars?

First off, this is a VERY LONG, exploratory and adventure game. The island is huge and you have to explore caves and buildings, which in its own, eats up a lot of time. Aside from figuring out which weapons to use against which dinosaurs, your memory skills will be tested as the game offers no hints as to which direction you should do or how to complete tasks. No map system is available while underground or in buildings so you'll get lost plenty of times. You start out with 5 lives and have infinite continues but no password or save system is available. If you intend to beat this game, you'll have to do it in one shot. After you finished all the objectives, you head back to the helipad. There, you get treated to the game's ending: the intro presentation of landing on the helipad when you first start playing....in reverse.

And that's it. It took me almost 4 hours to beat it and after seeing the game's ending, I was so disgusted that I went to my local game shop and sold it for some $$$. Bottom line: it's not worth it for the time and effort you spend on playing or beating this game.Jurassic Park is pretty Chalaging i kid you not. It is also fun to. If you want to beat this game in one day or several hours get the cheat codes from a place called Gamewinners.com. This is a pretty cool game.

If you liked this game then check out all of the jp gamesThere are a few "Dead Ends" in this game.  (That's funny if you've played it.)  What I mean is that you find yourself cornered by the madman Scissorman and killed.  However, the point of the game is to evade the killer while picking up clues that will reveal his identity.  Is he just a sick human being?  Or is Scissorman some supernatural evil?

  Sometimes the game will have you begging for a save point where you must successfully run from Scissorman several times before you can escape or find help.

  Overall, the game will probably satisfy people who enjoy thrillers and games like Resident Evil or Fatal Frame.  It is a race to find the critical clues.  However, it is a cursor-moving game.  You do not have free three-D movement as I thought you would.  Rather, you use a cursor for movement.

  It's not that bad a game.If you can find a copy of this game going cheap, by all means get it, as it's a great little shocker - but be prepared for some seriously lame graphics. And I do mean primitive. This was one of the earliest PS1 games, and it shows, which is a shame because the actual idea and concept are great. A crazed killer is on the loose with giant scissors and it's up to you to unravel the mystery and find out who he is and what he's up to.

There are plenty of good points to this game. One of them being that is really does present you with a mystery, and if you don't follow the clues provided, your investigation goes straight to a dead end and all your hard work ends up in a Game Over scene complete with credits that tells you that you have failed to solve the case. Quite brutal in a way, and daring, even, to treat the player so harshly. It happened to me, and I had no choice but to begin again and this time try and make some more well informed choices when given the chance. Once you get it right, the game takes you on the full journey to the climax of the story, which is well worth the effort.

So how is this story brought to life?...well, with the dreaded words "point and click". Yes, it's sad but true, the action in "Clock Tower" is completely mouse click operated, which means that you will be moving a cursor arrow around on screen with your D pad and clicking the X button when it's on hotspots to start action and make choices. For the WHOLE game. Be warned that if this sounds like something you have moved on from, you might want to think twice. However, then think a third time, because...hey, whaddya know, it works! The exploration, the combat, in fact all character movements and interactions are  done by clicking somewhere on the screen, and once you get the hang of it, you're away.

So let's get onto the gameplay. This is a game of fear and surprises. The villain of the piece, "Scissorman" can leap out at you at random points in the game and pursue you relentlessly until you either hide, run far enough away, or find something to stop him with. (Or get killed). Combat such as you may be used to does not exist in "Clock Tower", but it really doesn't matter. If you make it through to the last level, set in a sprawling castle, you'll have the gameplay mechanics well and truly in hand. It's by no means easy, though, and towards the end you'll still be in danger of blowing it all and getting one of the several endings other than the one "good" one, if you're not super observant and quick witted.

But castles, shock tactics and gruesome deaths alone do not make a game, and as I mentioned, you're going to have to work with truly dated graphics to play this baby. I'm not complaining, after all, we're talking about the earliest days of the Playstation here, but I really must make it clear how primitive it looks - especially now that we have moved up to the sophistication of it's PS2 third incarnation which allows full directional movement and 3 dimensional areas to run about in.

But hey, "Clock Tower" is the father of them all, and it deserves it's dues. Checkout screen shots on the internet first (if you can still find any), so you know what you're in for, and then brace yourself for an exciting dip into retro territory. And yes, it will STILL make you jump!I found this game for $3 at a used game store. I was just looking for some racing games since i just found my steering wheel for the n64. It's an alright game but it's sometimes hard to control. overall it's fun to play but don't pay more then $5 for it.I like this game overall, but as you can see by the other reviews, it does have its flaws.  What I liked about the game is just the mere fact that it is rather time consuming.  You don't just put it in and win.  You have to think and manage your planets carefully.  The "normal" skill level is just way to hard to be "normal".  I haven't even wanted to try to play it under "hard".  Why bother when I can't even beat it under normal.
I myself haven't had any problems with memory.  But, I can't see a lot of the text when the starfield is on.  This makes it hard to use the quick research function.  The text is there, just can't read it.  And it's not that I have a slow system, it's a brand new 866.
I also think this game is very much like Master of Orion, just not as good.  Well, maybe they will come out with another version of Master of Orion for us.This is potentially the greatest space opera game to come along in years.  It is depressing that this potential is lost.  First, expect to find sound conflicts with the game.  The game will lock up your PC or dump out of the  game during periods that you acess the game's personal communications  device.  (No, no option to avoid going there, so expet to get dumped about  every 20 minutes of game play).  But, this glich is based on your system's  hardware, so, maybe you won't have that problem.  Next, you will find a  game that bases interaction on diplomacy and spying without adequate  instructions on how they play against one another.  Worse yet, expect  diplomacy not to work at all.  The diplomacy function is extremely  frustrating as you seem incapable of generating anything from the other  races except a declaration of war, which they do as soon as they have more  ships than you.  You will also be frustrated in your inablitiy to  manufacture ships while the computer players just build them out the  whazoo.  You will also be frustrated in the need to micromanage all tanks  during any invasions.  You have 30 tanks?  So, what?; unless you give 30  indivdiual orders they blunder around the map and get shot up piece meal.  Forget about giving group orders. With all the negative said, this game has  a great concept, great music, fantastic cut-scenes, fun space battles, and  a flawless intergration of real time/turn based concepts.  This is a buyer  beware item.  If you love MOO you will find this game acceptable, if you  don't know what MOO is, STAY AWAY- FRUSTRATION AHEAD!Very good for the first 4 stages, but, after stage 4, you will be in Sigma's Fortress to defeat Vile, and believe me, this is the most frustrating stage I have ever played on any game! If you thought the first 4 stages were hard, you are in big trouble, because, after you defeat Vile, you have to go through hell just to make it to Boomer Kwanger and after Kwanger, you have to defeat the most frustrating boss of the stage, the Bobspider! Unless you love frustration, I would not reccommend this game, as it gets much harder to the point that you completely put the game down.This game is like the seris gay. The game is hard because you have no health and the bad guys.... well they do. Even the average bad dude could be a boss so i leave it at that with 3 starsfor whatever reason sega couldn't get vf or vf remix to look or play like the arcade game, but hit the nail on the head with vf2 (thus i own every vf except 1 since theres no quintessential version of 1).

everything in great shape, this seller is good and honest.Risk has always been a great, classic game, and thought its been quite some time since I sat down to play the board game, and being that I just picked up the Lord of the Rings Edition of the Risk board game, I needed practice and I figured I would give 'Risk II' a try.
Risk II is definitely fun.  You can play alone, using computer AI to fill in where the other players would be, making for some great practice for when you play with your friends.  There are many different AI opponents to choose from, and presumably these different opponents use different strategies when you play against them.
There is a Simultaneous Battle mode that has you coordinating attacks at the same time that your opponents are.  It is easier to play with computer AI, since with human opponents it tends to take a while, or the game ends up ending in 3 minutes.  However, it is a very interesting way to play Risk and I enjoy it.  There are multiple options to choose from, such as setting the number of batallions you receive for controlling continents, how many territories are open(for example: Hawaii and some outlying islands are often closed, but may be set as territories), and how territories are distributed at the start of the game.
Battles are animated, which is a nice touch, and the graphics, while nothing impressive, are nice enough to look at for a while.  I give the game only 3 stars however because of the AI issues.  Sometimes, the AI opponents can be just absolutely stupid, barely putting up any challenge whatsoever.  But being that you are playing against a computer, it seems that the computer is prone to cheating...or at least, having just a wee bit too much 'luck' with the roll of the dice.  To this day, I will never know how my invasion force of 40 batallions lost to a defender force of 11...only 11 defending batallions!  Its things like that which kind of diminish the fun in the game, because for any player, AI or not, to have that much luck when they're the last territory in the game is, for lack of a better word, completely unprecedented.
Regardless, the game is fun to play, and is of course always more fun when you have more than one person playing it.  The computer AI serves as great practice and if you're just looking to waste time, and overall the game is a fine single player experience, even if the AI just happens to have unrealistic amounts of luck.  I recommend this game to any Risk fan, as it should keep you entertained for hours on end.  I'm already hooked, though when it comes to competing with other people, I prefer the board game.  The AI just fluctuates too much between being stupid and skillful, often going to extremes in both cases.I like it but I have to get use to it because I'm terrible at this game. Must buy a guide.Donkey Kong Land is a pretty decent game, but it lacks the overall magic of the DK Country games on the SNES.  It is your basic side scroller adventure game.  The play control is good and the challenge decent.  You can use the animal friends like the Rhino and Dolphin.  But once you play through it, the game does not have that much replay value to it.  I really missed the barrel shooting like in the SNES version.  I get the limitations of the Gameboy system but it would have been nice to see in the game.

DK Land does have all new levels designs so you are playing a totally different game.  Most of the characters will be familiar with the same strengths and weaknesses.  The battery save feature is nice being able to save your progress.  I found the game pretty easy overall.  It just seemed to me it needed a better reward or incentive to play through the game again.  In DK Country getting that 101% was a nice way to keep playing the game.

What disappointed me most was the cheap ending.  I hate it when you invest your time in a game and all you get at the end is a cheap "Congratulations" with credits. It would have been nice to see a parade of characters like they do in the Mega Man games or just a nice snap shot like at the end of Donkey Kong for Gameboy.  Or like the Wario Land games your ending will be determined how many bananas you were able to collect and find making your way through the game.  I would rate DK Land 3 stars it is pretty average.  I would save your money and buy DK Country for Gameboy Color or just buy Donkey Kong for Gameboy.  The classic Donkey Kong game for Gameboy has a lot more replay value than this one and a much better challenge.

Gameplay: 6/10
Play Control: 7/10
Story: 5/10
Challenge: 6/10
Replay Factor: 6/10Donkey Kong Land is a fairly fun game with lots of unique levels to it. Unlike the others in the Donkey Kong Land series, the levels in the game are not related to the original. They range from sky levels to city levels. Feels much more different than traditional Donkey Kong games.

The controls is my biggest gripe with this game. In every Donkey Kong game, if you press the attack button they character attacks and if you hold it you begin to run fast. It gives you a running start basically. Well, not in this game. If you press the attack button to get a fast start to jump over something, you will actually slow down almost to a stop after the attack before you can begin to run. If you jump after an attack, you will only go a few inches and fall. To jump far you need to already have had the run button held so you won't attack first.

That isn't the only problem though, because whenever you jump if feels as if some invisible weights are tied to your character. Your character gets pulled down when they jump instead of falling. The jumping in this game is horrible and makes any jump a challenge, but the worst is in the sky level.

The secrets in this game are easy to find for the most part. All you have to do is find the bonuses and KONG letters. I only ever got stuck on two levels looking for the secrets. Everything being in one color doesn't help finding them any easier.

Overall the game is a little fun but the controls are frustrating. It goes against everything you've learned from the Donkey Kong series and makes the game difficult in some levels. The game is short and only took me about 3 hours to complete 100% but for what it is, it isn't too bad, but I would not recommend it.A few months ago I picked up a copy of Donkey Kong Land III at a local game store and had a pretty enjoyable time making my way through the game. Because the titles that make up the GameBoy Land trilogy are so inexpensive these days - and given that I'm much more taken with retro games than current ones - I wanted to make an effort to try out the other games in the series. Long story short this is another solid game to add to any GameBoy collection... but unlike Land III the original game isn't quite as smooth in what it offers.

One of Donkey Kong Land's greatest strengths is while it contains the same gameplay as the Super Nintendo games, the level design is not directly ripped from those titles. This might seem like an odd thing to champion (and you really need to play the rather disappointing Donkey Kong Land 2 as a point of comparison to know why I'm stating this) but this makes the proceedings feel fresher than they would otherwise be. The importance of this comes into play late in the game when the player enters the final world (the city levels) which is unlike anything in the SNES trilogy. Ironically this is where the game almost falls apart. These levels are home to a rather significant difficulty spike and while it's kind of welcome (since the Donkey Kong Country on the Super Nintendo is ridiculously easy) it puts an obvious strain on the experience. Additionally, the controls and character physics in Donkey Kong Land take some time to get use to. Donkey Kong and Diddy don't handle exactly like they do on the Super Nintendo. Jumps are much more "floaty" in this version and the Kongs move through the water with much less resistance. This will definitely throw players off at first but thankfully they will adjust and be able to compensate very quickly.

However, beyond that there really isn't anything else that holds Donkey Kong Land back. The game is an inexpensive and is easy to come by since the Land series games were produced in a pretty robust quantity and become part of Nintendo's Player Choice line-up. The only thing that really hurts Donkey Kong Land (and its sequels) is the fact the original SNES games were ported the GameBoy Advance a few years later which most players will probably opt for over these. Still, I think the Land trilogy is worth picking up despite the issues that hold it back.This review is written in light of owning a copy of Armada 2, so I will begin by saying that if you can find a copy of Armada 2 (they've become somewhat rare) then I reccomend that title over this one, but failing that, this is also decent.

Armada has several flaws that keep it from being a truly great game, but several nice touches as well.

Armada fails in it's strategic edge for gameplay, and further in the simplification of both Borg graphics and the function of various ships.  In this game, the ships you produce behave much like footmen in Warcraft 3, the only difference being that your ships can be seen dogfighting and shooting each other with phasers and from time to time, being assimilated.

The function of ships also carries a few flaws, and the races are diverse enough to offer a few different options to battle, but for the most part, the same strategy works for any race: Blockade an enemy base and use built (or captured) artillery vessels to pummel its defenses until you can safely attack with your battlefleet.

The games economy is also overly simplified, starbases produce officers, a unit cap, each starbase you control adds to your crew pool ( a resource you will never find yourself running short of) and dilithium moons provide the only demand resource.  Gameplay therefor has the same frustrating tendancy seen in Starcraft, victory is a function of who can gather the most dilithium the fastest, and not a question of who can outwit thier opponents.

The scaling on the ships is also terribly off.  A Soveriegn is a fine, powerful ship, but it should not be able to singlehandedly eliminate three borg cubes, and although I understand this was a balance issue, I feel that it ultimately detracts from the games potential.

The next borg related quam I have here is the borg art.  They have chosen to use a mesh-like mass to represent the borg utilitarian look, all wires and pipes and stuff showing on the surface, but it rather just ends up looking like a big green (or try pink as your player color, that's really funny) blob that is only reminiscent of a borg cube.

Where this game shines, and it does a little, is in its singleplayer campaigns, which have a decent set of storylines and some good voice talent.  The federation campaign has the benefit of Patrick Stewart and Micheal Dorn, Stewart reprising locutus for the borg campaign, and as a special surprise to those who were her fans, Denise Crosby returns as the wily Admiral Sela, to champion the romulan cause in a souped up D'Deridex.

Overall, it's not a bad game, but given that Armada 2 exists, it pales and loses a lot of its appeal.They got through it so fast that I felt it a waste of money, like I do for most video games.  The boys liked it, but once they beat the game it got given to a local thrift shop.Remember Command and Conquer, the real-time strategy that lets you build a base, a lot of units and rush the opposing force?  You'd think the developers of the original would come up with some innovative game play for the sequel. While maybe they can, they didn't here. Not only is the game play unchanged, it suffers from a weak story, poor balancing and computer AI and several small problems.

The single player campaign story, what there is of it, is just a jumble of scenarios without much to tie them together. There are characters and things happen to them but but there isn't a story progression to follow. You fight over here, you fight over there, then it's the final battle. In fact I reached the end of the GDI campaign without realizing it. The live video cut-scenes should have helped create a rich back-story but writing this I can't remember any of it.

There are balance issues particularly with NOD units and structures. A NOD 'super laser' structure can destroy almost anything with one shot but the NOD artillery is completely unbalanced. With a long range and a big punch, the artillery is can wipe out any ground force, and is unstoppable even in small numbers as long as a small anti-air backup is nearby.

The computer is an easy opponent. It doesn't rush but sending units at piecemeal, a handful at a time. It doesn't protect it's harvesters either, once you locate them it's easy to cut-off the computer's resources. The computer showed some initiative just once: During a NOD scenario several GDI engineers rushed my base taking several of my structures. I was so surprised it nearly wiped me out but building a good perimeter stopped later rushes. In the scenarios that followed the engineer rush never happened again. I didn't try any higher difficulty levels, maybe the computer plays better there.

Large maps are hard to manage, the game tell you that an offscreen unit is lost but not where the unit is. Some scenarios seem designed to simply frustrate you with a huge map and a timed objective with no direction as to where to accomplish it. In the end the game is all about the mass rush, once you build 50 or medium strength units nothing the computer can't stop you. On the technical side this game ran perfectly on Windows 2000.

If you're looking for more of the original Command and Conquer this game's for you.Unfortunately this game is just a hodge-podge of elements from the other games.  There are some interesting new units, and I did enjoy the much larger maps.  My biggest complaint is that it is so short.  You are just getting to use some of the more advanced units and the game is over.  You never get the big final battle like at the end of the last two incarnations.  This is by far the shortest game of the bunch.  I finished each side's campaign over the course of three nights, about 9-12 hours of game play.This game is way too easy for adults.  For kids, it's great.  I wish they made one for adults though with more difficulty levels.Many people believe that this is a copy of Super Mario 64. I have played Super Mario 64 DS, and I must say that for the most part they are correct. The only thing different from this game is the puzzle-finding element to the game. If you are into strategy and action games the two games you should have in mind are Super Mario 64 and Banjo Kazooie. But, suppose you could only take one. Which would you purchase? Both are almost the same. If you like games where you have to think and games that are tedious, both are for you. Overall, since Banjo-Kazooie makes you think quite a bit more and has the extra puzzle-finding feature to it, I would suggest you pick up Banjo-Kazooie first and then either get Banjo-Tooie if you truly enjoyed the first game, or get Super Mario 64 if you want to play a slightly different video game. Also, Banjo-Kazooie is A LOT easier than Super Mario 64. So when you go to the store to pick which of the two games to buy, remember that unless you have a lot of free time on you hands, you probably shouldn't buy Super Mario 64.Good times man, But $512.00? You are out of your damned mind, No game is worth that no matter what the condition is.