I have to be honest: Normally, I'm not into these first person shooter games.  They're just so clunky, most of the time you can't tell where you're going, you don't know if an enemy is behind you, (Or at times even in front of you, if you get a weird camera angle) and plus might I add that you can't see your character, which does not really, (For me, most of the time) give that whole imaginative feel that you ARE that character.
  Well, Goldeneye is an excellent and well made game.
  I don't know why people complain about the graphics...it's actually kind of cool, and plus the enemies in this game are from head to toes so detailed that you think they're real.  The scientists in the facility level are well detailed, and most all the characters are animated incredibly.
  Besides, you take on the role of James Bond.  James Bond! The hero that defined action! This game is not dull, and at times it is so scary when you are overswarmed by a bunch of enemies in one small room.
  The multiplayer mode, is, of course, wonderful.  You can choose from power weapons, sniper rifels, Dostovals, Shotguns, PP7's, proximity mines, hand grenades, laser guns, and basicly everything else that you can think of.  It is an entertaining game, and it is well worth the money.
  The camera angles rock.  you never get lost.
  So, why didn't I give this game Five stars?  Read below and find out.

  THE BADS OF THE GAME
  There are some major glitches.  You can see your enemies literally walk through walls, not completely, but almost there.
  At times the doors, when I command it to open with the B button, it still won't open, even if I already DID get an access card for the door in the first place.  The reason behind that is the fact that an enemy is probably trying to open the door as well, but how am I supposed to know that? So, I stand back, the enemy comes in, and oh, guess what, it turns out that there isn't just one of them, there's thirty, so they all shoot at me, and I die.  You can easily die in this game just due to glitches, which makes it very difficult and frustrating.
  If you forget one thing on a mission, just one small thing which most of the time has nothing to do with the story, then you have to start the whole mission over again.  You don't just do the thing you forgot, either, you have to do all the things that you did do, as well as the things you did not.
  The game is predictible, due to the fact that it follows the movie, although when it does not follow the movie, (Which it does a lot) then it gets kind of dissapointing because what you expected did not happen.
  The puzzles can be frustrating.  I'm still trying to figure out how to get the bottling room on the facility level.
  The game is also very gory.  I don't know why they gave this game a TEEN rating instead of a mature...it should of been rated mature.

  Now, for the GOODS of this game.
  GOODS
  Use an incredibly large arsenal of weaponry and more weaponry...prepare to save the world, it's gonna be a rough ride.
  It follows the movie really well, (Most of the time, anyways) And if you're a big fan of james bond you will really enjoy this game.  Even if you aren't you'll still enjoy it.
  You play the role of james Bond, which is worth it within itself.
  This game is the greatest First person shooter game for the N64.  The controls aren't so difficult that you'll get lost and forget which buttons to use while you're losing, but they are simple and easy and at the same time fun.  And even if you don't like the controls, you can decide which buttons you want for which ones the controller screen.
  There's nothing that you can't shoot or destroy.
  The cheats are FUNNY!  I mean, honestly, try the invisibility mode. You can shoot a near bye dashboard when a Gaurd is near, and that gaurd will start freaking out and look around to see who did that.  This makes the game easier also, and the invincibility mode is good too, although I tried and realized that you can't have the invisibility mode and invincibility at the same time.  You can also make the bad guys heads small and stuff, which is really funny to see.
  The way that the characters are animated are almost identicle to the characters in the movie...they look exactly like the actors.
  At the end of every level, it tells you how many kills you did, how many limb shots, how many head shots, and how many body shots you had.
  The artificial intelligence with the badguys aren't all that challenging, but when there's a whole crowd of them, watch out!
  This game is excellent.  Did I mention that it's excellent? Let me repeat it again: This game is excellent! Excellent I tell you, excellent!