I'm not really a fan of N64.  I've always been more of a Playstation one fanatic, but Zelda is undoubtedly the best game that I have ever played.  If you think that Final Fantasy is good, then Zelda will make all of the installments in final fantasy look like junk.  There's only a couple of games on the nintendo N64 console that of which I liked, and that was Gauntlet Legends, Super Mario, and Donkey Kong.  But this game beats them all by a longshot.
  Then why did I give this game four stars instead of five?  The reason is because of the...problems listed below.
  1.  This game is HARD. I don't mean hard as in "Challenging" I'm talkin' about the whole you-possibly-will-never-ever-complete-the-game-without-a-strategy-guide hard.  The type of frustration which can rack your nerves big time.
  2.  There are a couple of glitches in the game. Example: I dare you to cut a sign with your sword.  Then play Zeldas lullaby with your ocerina of time.  The piece of sign which you had just sliced and diced will float.  That's just one of the glitches.
  3.  A little confusing, as far as the story goes.  It's better to play the game twice and see if you still understand it.
  4.  Replay value isn't very high.  Once you complete it, that's it.  It's so hard that I wouldn't ever want to go through the same frustration again, as to the fact that it was very difficult, even if you do know what you're doing.
  Okay, those were the bads.  Here are the goods.
  1.  The graphics are outstanding.  Wow.  The whole world of Termina reminds me of middle earth, only a lot less dark and ten times more exotic.
  2.  Once you beat the game, you feel satisfied with yourself.  Sure, this game is a little short, but it will still take you a long time to beat it, no matter how experienced you are with gaming.
  3. The plot is good and twists a lot.  I know that I said it was kind of confusing, and it kind of is, but it's still fun and the things that of which I did understood surprised me a lot.
It's sort of a mystery.
  4.  Fluint and absolutely excellent cut and FMW sequences.  It's true.  Like I said above, the graphics are wonderful.  And plus, exploring a small portion of Termina, which you do through out the game, is an experience that you don't wanna miss.
  5.  The bad guys are challenging, but not so challenging that you'll be ripping your hair out.  Once you beat them, you feel satisfied.
  6.  Highly addictive gameplay and plus you won't stop until you beat the game.
  But there's one major, and I mean MAJOR problem with this game.  This game is so addictiive that you might forget about everything else in life.  Remember your family?  You won't when you get this game, since you'l be wanting to play this game even more. A Anyways, get the game.