Fans of dedicated single-player "first person shooter" games who've never played this game before should definitely not pass it up.  HL takes an utterly unoriginal idea for either games or movies and crafts an utterly unstoppable gaming experience.  You play Gordon Freeman, who works in the bowels of an ultra-secret, underground research facility called "The Black Mesa".  (Having played the game yet I'm still not sure what's supposed to be going on in BM - it's what happens that matters.)  Oozing high-tech, the facility is host to another dimension when you/Freeman accidentally...do something that tears a whole in the fabric of our own - allowing beings from that other world to enter ours.

Now, if you think that these otherworldly denizens are peaceful beings intent on fostering cross-dimensional love, or that your fellow human beings will enter the Black Mesa unarmed intent on warmly welcoming these beings to our world, I'm afraid you've picked up the wrong game entirely.  For in the bowels of "Black Mesa" you'll confront howling dog things, flying crabs, alien-zombified versions of your colleagues, gigantic aliens that breathe fire through their fists, aliens that hang from ceilings (and entrap their victims using these vine-looking things) and squads of human special forces troops intent on killing everything that moves.  If the above attracts you because you think it may be the setting that elevates the nobility of the human existence, I should warn you to look elsewhere - for in "Half Life", you'll find yourself acting indiscriminately with a 9mm automatic, a submachine gun, grenades and (most regrettably of all) a nasty crowbar; you'll make few friends and find yourself (for the most part) alone and (not infrequently) exiled to ventilation ducts (again with the ducts!!) to avoid getting shot at by humans, or burned, bitten, bolted or tongue-bathed by aliens.  Complex problem solving skills (as much as marksmanship or bullet-saving) are crucial in this game - in which your enemies have above-average levels of AI.  There are unfortunately times when a level may be hung up by the failure to achieve some specific mission-goal, but this is on the whole a game in which the goals are sufficiently complex to make you feel cool for achieving them, yet not so complex as to be impossible to solve.  The settings are fantastic - from the vast to claustrophobic.  The game is long - uncommitted gamers may find it tedious - but the scope of design here rewards those who keep up with it.

I ran this game on an XP-equipped P4, with a 64MB AGP card, and had no problems (other than those involving the evil aliens and homicidal fellow humans).  Graphics and sound were smooth, and I suffered no CTD's.