A Good game comes along, entertaining millions of fans worldwide. Then, a year later another good game comes along and steals the fisrt ones place. Ever since the beginning of game history, every good game that came out eventually got replaced by a better game the next year. Since Sept. 98, that cycle has been broken, stopped by one game that never got replaced, even by it's sequals, nothing ever ended out better than Zelda: Ovarina of Time. This game has revolutionized 3D gaming with its Z-Target system. It has enchanted and bewildered people with its magnificant storyline. It has taken the lives of thousands of people because of all the side-quests and collectible items in it. This game, I am predicting, will probably still rain supreme until the next system comes out (The one after gamecube). Its Z-Targeting system makes Link (the main character) look at an enemy, within this looking, he can circle around it in stategic patterns, accurately aim and strike the sword without missing and hitting air a yard away, and eaily and quickly dodge and backflip attacks. Many games, even nowadays, imitate this system, but fail to get it as correct and perfect as Zelda did/does. The storyline starts off telling of a magical forest with many never-growing children in it. All these children have one compainon fairy with them, except one boy, who does not. Right from hearing this setence in the game for the first time, you know your in for an adventurous, complicated yet slightly realistic storyline that will take your life for at least a month. And, this game has many, many side quests to do. There are 100 special spiders to defeat and get treasures with, 50 magic beans to be planted and give a passegeway to unaccesible areas, 25 heart pecies to collect to get a whole lot of health with, 15 masks to sell and play around with, 6 empty bottles to collect, a chicken to rais, and a huge trading sidequest that eventually leads to the possesion of the strongest weapon in the game. And much more. This game also has the perfect sound to it. The cheerfull, happy nature of the magical forest can be perfectly heard in it's background music. The adventurous, wide and far meadows of hyrule feild are perfectly expressed in it's background song. The fast-paced and action-packed lives of the desert theives is clearly expressed in it's song. Everywhere you turn in this game, you are greeted with a new background song that sings perfectly the attributes and unique features of that place, and transations perfectly with whatever the player/link might be doing in that place. This game's sequal, Majoras Mask, suffered horribly from the lack of this. And the prevous games in the series didn't meet this either. One more thing though, I'll admit it to the world, I hate the main Zelda theme. I'm glad its not in Ocarina of Time, In a game that so clearly stands out with it's music, one old sounding, bland song that dosnt fir well with hyrule feild wouv'dv ruined the experience of going out of kokiri forest and seeing it for the first time. Oh, I forot to mention that part too, the game has a perfect attidude for adventure in it. The places are designed very well, and when mixed in with the fabulous background music, gives a feeling of adventure that is completely unparelled to any other game, whatsoever. The first moment you walk out of the small and cramped kokiri forest, which actually used to seem so big, onto the your first grasses of hyrule feild, the sun will blind the screen for a moment, and as rising, reveal this spectacular, wide open feild with a tuft of trees, a monstor here and there, a ranch in the middle, and a clear blue sky with a brightly shining sun. Along the feild, a rise in elevation starts, as you climb the hill, you can see even more than you could before, a magestic, huge catsle, a winding clear blue river, a deep valley, a menancing volcanoe, and a huge lake, along with a tuft of trees, and a monstor here and there. As you travel to new places, you will feel almost the exact same feeling of adventure too, when seeing the towering windmill of Kakariko village above the small, humble houses of the village below it, with the perfect backgrond music for example. With this great feeling of adventure, huge enviroments, much huger than even the ones of nowaday games, and a great storyline and absolutly stunning soundtrack, Ocarina of Time is the Greatest game of all time, until a greater game will come out, wich will probably take a very very long time. If you don't already own this game (Shame on you), you should buy it immediatly, and while waiting for it to ship, download an emulated version. Now. Or else.