I should probably review some modern games while I'm here, but I've been kinda GTA'ed out recently, so I decided to put the PS3 away for a minute and bring up some old games from the past to see if they're just as fun as I remember them as.  One of those titles was WCW/nWo Revenge.

Released during WCW's heyday (and roughly a few months before WCW's eventual downfall), the game showcases an astoundingly deep roster for game that came out in the 90s.  A total of 63 WCW/nWo wrestlers were divided up into different factions:  WCW 1 (main-event wrestlers), WCW 2 (mid-card wrestlers), WCW 3 (opening match wrestlers), WCW 4 (Cruiserweight wrestlers), nWo White, nWo Red, and Raven's Flock.  Further, there were roughly a dozen or so other wrestlers listed under the imaginary EWF and DAW leagues included in the game; these wrestlers were modeled after Japanese wrestling stars but had their likenesses changed to avoid copyright issues.

The controls of the match are simple enough for anyone to jump in and learn, but you have to understand the psychology of wrestling (and use the controls accordingly) if you want to go deep into the championship modes of the game.  Players use the B button to strike, A button to initiate a grapple, the d-pad to move, and the joystick to either taunt or execute a special move.  The player can differentiate between a weak strike/grapple and a strong strike/grapple by holding the respective button down until the move is executed.  The more "worn down" your opponent is, the better chances you have of successfully hitting them with a strong attack.  Yet if you try to initiate a strong grapple on an opponent who's not worn down, they'll likely reverse the attack and counter with one of their own.  So much like real wrestling, you have to wear your opponent down with the weak attacks until you move up and hit them with the strong ones (and also like wrestling, it's a good idea to generate a response from the audience by letting out a taunt while your opponent's down.)  Once your spirit meter is full, you can strike an opponent with a special move by initiating a strong grapple and then moving the joystick (or alternately using the joystick when on the turnbuckle if the finisher's an aerial maneuver.)  The controls also allow you to run, leave the ring, block/counter an attack, dodge an attack, and set your focus on another opponent if you're involved in a handicap or tag team scenario.

The game has several modes:  Championship, Exhibition, and Special Modes.  The exhibition mode is a singles or tag team match where the player can face either the computer, a friend, or a few friends since the game supports up to 4 players.  The championship modes allow the player to compete for the WCW TV Championship, the WCW Cruiserweight Championship, the WCW Tag Team Championship, the WCW United States Championship, and the grand-daddy of them all, the WCW World Heavyweight Championship (affectionately referred to as the Big Gold Belt.)  While the path to the Television titles and the Cruiserweight titles aren't terribly challenging, you will need to bring your "A" game when competing for the higher-tiered titles (or you can dial the difficulty down to Easy, either or.)  The special modes essentially allow the player to engage in specialty handicap or battle royal exhibition matches; with the former allowing for 2-on-1 or 3-on-1 battles while the latter will have 4 competitors fighting each other in the ring until one's eliminated, with the option to allow up to 40 contestants to enter the match.  You're also given a mode where you can customize the given wrestlers to either have different names or to have them wear different costumes.

The upside to the game is that it's still fun to play, even 15 years later.  As I said earlier, anyone can pick up the controllers and jump in, while the subtle nuances of the game don't take much effort to figure out as you go along.  The soundtrack is limited but I don't ever think anyone confused WCW's entrance music with the music that Jim Johnston (of WWE fame) has released over the years (with the only exception being Goldberg's theme.)  The graphics were a work in progress considering where the franchise was at by the time WWF No Mercy was released, but it was still leaps and bounds better than what most expected from the gameplay of other systems at the time (as a reminder, this game was released for a console that is three generations removed from what's available today.)  If there was one drawback from the game, it's the limited gaming options that exist.  Once you beat the championship mode, that was essentially it as far as beating the game was concerned.  There were no steel cage match options, tag teams were limited to 2-on-2 action, and the create-a-wrestler option wouldn't be introduced until THQ/AKI began releasing titles for WWF.  Other gripes I have are that you can't seemingly control whether or not someone interferes on your behalf and the fact that the CPU can "Hulk up" their spirit meter rather effortlessly while the player has to do all the little things right to make that possible.

With all that said, however, the game's fun factor makes it a legitimate "must have" for wrestling fans and should be considered by N64 fans who are looking for a beat-em-up button-masher where the top prize is the WCW Championship.  I recommend this to N64 gaming fans, wrestling fans, and people who watched wrestling "when it was cool."