For anyone who was a fan of video games, they remember the year of 1996:

The Playstation made waves and drew many Nintendo fans away with its 32-bit graphics and CD based games. For the first time, Nintendo was being challenged on its own ground and they had to answer Sony with a console of its own. After they put the Super Nintendo system to rest, they went to work and released the Nintendo 64 to the public. The odds were against them because with only two launch titles to choose from, early adopters had to either pick Pilotwings 64 (a good game) or Super Mario 64. This game was the reason Nintendo's console immediately flew off the shelves and showed that Mario can make the jump to 3D and it was fun doing so.

I'll make my review short because other reviewers had covered the basics and importance of Super Mario 64. It stars Mario in an open world where each stage is contained within various paintings scattered through Princess Peach's castle. The storyline is pretty typical by now: King Bowser kidnaps the princess and you jump in to rescue her. The graphics are colorful, bright and were a breakthrough in video game technology at the time. The controls are perfect and take almost no time to get used to. It's a pretty challenging game so expect to replay certain stages over and over again. So why did I give it 4.5 stars? The camera is not perfect but back then, getting the camera to work in any open world style game was difficult to program. It always centers behind you but sometimes gets a little wacky when you go up ledges or around corners. It gets annoying after awhile but you learn to tolerate it.

What made this game groundbreaking was that games of this type proved to be a challenge to make and to make it fun as well is really the main goal. Super Mario 64 exceeds this and was a commercial success with gamers and gained much critical acclaim from reviewers of virtually every gaming publication. Those who say didn't like were in the minority and for reasons that were just too petty and silly. While gaming has changed tremendously since 1996, this game shows that the platform genre was at one point the kind of games that everyone wanted to play. And now, you can either track down the cartridge or get this for the Nintendo DS. So if you haven't played this, take a look for yourself as to why many gamers loved to play this game. I highly recommend it.