I bought this game in 1997, over a year after it was released. The first few weeks i played it, i was amazed at the beautiful 3D graphics. Honestly,  i had never seen 3D graphics before this game, so it was awesome and  inspiring.
I love this game, so i'm writing this review. There are some  memorable moments from this game (like when Mario ventures into the haunted  mansion or when he goes on a rainbow ride in the skies)
All in all, it  showcases the N64 incredible 3D graphics and the sound isn't half  bad.
The levels are interesting and sparse ( i beat this game with the  Nintendo Power guidebook) and should take some time to crack the puzzles.  Basically, the game is quite easy and not surprisingly, it has enough  mini-quests and puzzles to keep you occupied. As for level designs, i think  it's excusable considering it's first generation stuff but still deep  enough to immerse you (again) after a long absence...
My gripe is while  this game is really good (i mean i'm a big-time Mario fan from the first  mario game), it's only as good as it lasts. I found it hard to go back to  this game after a while- cause it was like having discovered everything and  it made it hard to play through the whole thing again.
My advice: play  selectively. You need to get into the mood. While i say that, it's without  doubt that i have never regretted buying this game.
Even if i never play  this game again and leave it to collect dust (not likely)-i'll always  remember this game as one of the finest moments of the N64 lifetime (that  is 1996-2001).
Anyway, every Super Mario game is groundbreaking (SMB1  created the side-scroller, SMB2 was queer and fun, SMB3 is the greatest  platform game ever, SMB4 was one of the most replayed game i ever played  and this game is mario in 3D without luigi,which is sad)
But cheer up  people- the next generation is almost upon us. But i know that when we look  at 3D graphics today, we will know that this game had a part to play in  making this our reality today.