I picked this up the other day. It only took a few hours to finish the 1-player mode, but I suppose the fact that I'd previously played BattleTanx: Global Assault on PS1 helped me out a little.

Story: Some virus gets out of control and eliminates 99.9% of the females on planet earth. This dude named Griffin is in love with this girl, and then the government comes and takes her away. Meanwhile, gangster militias that are armed with Tanks take over the US and likely the rest of the world. Griffin vows to get his girlfriend back and save America from the various Tank gangs.

Gameplay: You play the entire campaign through in your stereotypical mock Abrams tank, blasting through enemy defenses and rescuing (or kidnapping???) women. Your tribal army needs women to stay in existence. Different gangs have different types of tanks. There are a variety of powerups for your tank like swarmer missiles, guided missiles, lasers, and gun buddies you can set down to defend areas. Most of the missions remind me of a multiplayer session of "Capture the Flag" from any number of FPS games. BattleTanx's single-player is unique in that regard.

Controls: They work pretty good. No complaints.

Multiplayer: There's no co-op campaign. BOO! :P You can play through various types of matches (most of which resemble the single-player levels) against friends or the AI. You can use the tanks of enemy games in the multi-player. That's all good and well, I guess, but I know I can blow my friends to kingdom come. What I really wanted was to be able to play it through the campaign on 2 players.

Graphics: They're early N64, but they look alright. I don't like the fact that your main tank in single-player looks so cartoony. The comic-style storytelling is unique, and I think they're way better than PS1 Global Assault's campy voice-acting.

If you're a fan of the BattleTanx series, I suppose owning (what I assume is) the first entry is important. However, if I had to choose between this game and its sequel, I would choose the latter due to its better single-player campaign.