WWF In Your House, while graphically WORSE than WWF Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game, should *not* be ignored if you like that Wrestlemania game because In Your House features the *exact* same arcade wrestling action.  The wrestlers have been updated too.

Yes, WWF In Your House is an old game with noticeably average graphics and not-so smooth animations.  It came out in 1996, I believe.  The graphics simply aren't as good as Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game.  BUT if you're a fan of Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game, I see no reason why you wouldn't like In Your House.

Some reviewers claim this game is hard.  It's really not that hard once you remember the most effective and damaging moves. It's easier than Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game.  In fact, if you consider yourself a fast gamer, you won't have ANY trouble with In Your House.  There's an option to put the game on easy, so if you must, put the game on easy.  Also turning blocking off helps make the game much easier.  Using the run button that's located at the top of the Playstation controller (I believe it's either L2 or R2, or maybe both) is a MUCH better idea than using the OTHER way of running (hitting two buttons at once- ugh!)

The loading time is somewhat worse than Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game, but only somewhat.  In Your House takes maybe 3 or 4 seconds longer to load a match, if that.  Unfortunately, the way Vince McMahon introduces the wrestlers is pretty bland and uninteresting compared to Wrestlemania: the Arcade Game where you actually saw the wrestlers running forward, towards their opponents, featuring their own distinct animations (such as Shawn Michaels posing and Doink "the clown" squirting water).  In this game, Vince just SAYS who you're facing while a boring picture appears on screen showing the wrestlers.  It's not as good.

You get to play as 10 wrestlers, and each wrestler has his own set of unique moves.  It's better to try finishing off your opponent using the moves that drain the most energy.  That's the number one rule to winning.

Going through a World Title tournament in Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game takes about 10 minutes.  Here it takes about 20 minutes, because you have to compete in more matches.  It's not a problem at all, though.  If anything, it's better this way, because it's *so* much fun going through all the rounds and whipping out one devastating move after another.  Some of these moves are realistic, while other moves are too extreme for wrestlers to be able to perform in reality.  For example, the Ultimate Warrior shooting lightning and the Undertaker shooting some kind of demonic spirits at you.  It doesn't happen in real life.

You get to play as Shawn Michaels, Vader, Bret Hart, Owen Hart, Ahmed Johnson, The British Bulldog Davey Boy Smith, The Undertaker, Goldust, The Ultimate Warrior, and Hunter Hearst Helmsley.  People may complain that this is a really small list of wrestlers to choose from, but it's actually better than the more updated wrestling games on the market today that feature WAY too many wrestlers that have no reason to exist.  At least with a small selection, you will be able to remember all your opponents main power moves.  Plus, giving you a small list of selectable wrestlers makes it feel more like a short and intense arcade game, which is the point.

It's probably the hardest going through the tournaments (all three of them) with Goldust because his energy seems to drain very quickly, and it's probably the easiest to complete these tournaments with Shawn Michaels or the British Bulldog Davey Boy Smith because they have MANY power moves that finish your opponent off very quickly.

But as I said above, this game is worse than Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game because the graphics and animations aren't in the same league.  But see, the thing is, In Your House and Wrestlemania: the Arcade Game are the ONLY arcade wrestling games with the WWE logo on them.  This means we only have TWO games like this that exist in the entire world.  Sure beats having a million slow-moving big and bulky 3D WWE games out there that have no major innovations implemented whatsoever to separate themselves, right?

I have a lot of fun with these arcade style wrestling games, so realism doesn't matter to me at all.  I will take this game over any and all of the best-looking WWE wrestling games that are so popular today.  I prefer wrestling games that are FAST, and that's what In Your House is all about.  It's fast, exciting, unique and with practice, not very difficult to complete.  Who cares about graphics?

So, in short, I don't CARE that In Your House is sort of a low-budget looking WWE game.  This and Wrestlemania are the only games like it.

Also, the commentators, Vince McMahon and Mr. Perfect, have a LOT more things to say in In Your House compared to Vince and Jerry Lawler in Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game.  Also worth mentioning: each wrestler has their own special thing to say at the beginning and end of a match.  Okay, so they don't say things ALL the time, but many times they do.

Both the Playstation and Saturn versions are great.  The Playstation version has shorter loading times, and plus I think the Playstation controller is better for delivering moves because of the simple button layout.  Also, there's a Sound Test option only in the Playstation version where you can hear all the sound effects and theme songs in the game.  I mean EVERY SINGLE THING you hear in the game can be found in the sound menu!  It's pretty awesome.

The Saturn version has a couple things that the Playstation version doesn't have, so don't worry Saturn fans!  Exclusive to the Saturn version includes an extra move for the Undertaker (in this version, you can deliver multiple chokeslams to your opponent - you can't do this on the Playstation version) and plus the Saturn version was created so you can perform finishing moves whenever you want, whereas in the Playstation version they can only be delivered during one-on-one matches.  It doesn't matter how many people you are facing on the Saturn version, you can deliver finishing moves at the end of every match, if you'd like.

Either version is great though.