Capcom's legendary Resident Evil series and I have never really seen eye to eye. Though I own nearly every non-GameCube title in the undead thriller's history, I'd never been able to stand one long enough to actually complete it, right up until this past week. I'd always found the series to be misleading, disguising itself as a straightforward action title before slowing the gameplay down to a crawl and relying on endless puzzles and feats of memory to lengthen completion times. Time after time, I'd sit down with the goal of finally tackling these games, and time after time I'd get bored, stuck or distracted, leaving the game behind. I grabbed Resident Evil 3 when it was relatively new, and the title has sat, unplayed, on my shelf for years. That was, as I said, until this past week, when I sat down with renewed vigor and vowed to complete the first title in the series, even if it drove me to madness.
I'll make it really blunt; the story is absolutely terrible. The uninspiring characters meander their way through the events without a care in the world, occasionally encountering plot holes large enough to drive an oversized bus through. Nagging issues, such as why somebody would lock their home's single shotgun away in a room that's only accessible through a string of unrelated tricks and puzzles, aren't even touched upon. What if somebody breaks in, in the middle of the night? Is the owner of the mansion really going to have time to roll out of bed, run downstairs, jog to one side of the house, move around a couple statues, grab a key, run to another corner of the house, open a door, grab a fake shotgun, return to the original side of the house, unlock the doors and replace the "real" shotgun with the fake? I suppose the story does the right thing by failing to even mention these things, but they'll still tug away at the back of your mind as you play.
The graphics of the first Resident Evil really haven't aged well. Humans and zombies alike wander around stiffly and unrealistically, each one looking almost identical to the others. Polygon models are simple and blocky. Textures are pixelated and undetailed, looking more like a game assembled on the Super Nintendo's SuperFX chip than a PlayStation title. The series' characteristic pre-rendered backgrounds are poorly compressed and difficult to navigate in places, forcing players to turn out all the lights and squint their eyes just to make their way through the room. Merging still images with live polygons, Resident Evil plays like a strange amalgamation of the PC classics "Myst" and "Alone in the Dark."
The bread and butter of any console title, its gameplay, is the one area where you'll really learn to love or hate this series. Rather than bothering with camera angles and awkward environments, Capcom has instead sent players through a series of screens, occasionally containing interactive elements of their own. You'll control Jill or Chris from a series of dramatic angles, never in control of the camera itself. They'll enter a screen on the left side, mosey around a little bit, kill a couple zombies and leave the screen on the right side, immediately entering the next screen from another direction. Though it was a somewhat novel concept at the time of its release, this scheme brought with it numerous problems, the most notable of which was your interaction with enemies on the next screen. It's not uncommon to run full throttle off the edge of one screen, only to find a zombie waiting for you right at the edge of the next. It's a really cheap way to take a hit, and can mean a speedy, frustrating death in later stages.
Looking back, the control scheme employed here is notably revolutionary. Rather than applying a more traditional platformer's control layout, Resident Evil introduced gamers to a stationary rotation-based configuration. Left and right don't serve to strafe, they stop the character's movement altogether and rotate them left or right in place. Up moves you forward, and down moves backwards. Pressing R1 draws your weapon, and pressing X at the same time fires. It's a scheme that's more appropriate for the kind of stationary gunfighting and marksmanship that's defined the action portions of this series since day one.
Many of the tricks and puzzles buried within the mansion aren't so much brain teasers as they are time wasters. You'll realize what needs to be done within moments, but chances are good you won't have the piece needed to do so on your person. It took me about six and a half hours to beat the game for the first time as Chris, cautiously walking around, learning the position of the zombies, figuring out the puzzles, groaning as I realized the piece I needed was sitting in a chest, fifteen minutes away, and repeating that process. The second time through, playing as Jill and remembering which random item I would need where, I finished in three hours and twenty minutes. That's one heck of a variation.
The soundtrack to the first Resident Evil is really something that's difficult to categorize. Imagine, if you can, a blend of symphonic suspense, the song that plays when you push "demo" on a keyboard, and elevator music. That's Resident Evil's melody. The composer tried to capitalize on the few "jump out of your seat" moments the storyline provided, but surrounded by cheesy samples, monotonously repeating tunes and quality that sounds more like something on the N64 than the PSX, there was only so much that could be done.
On the large, this was a different kind of game than what we were getting at the time, something fresh. It wasn't a blockbuster, oh-my-god-get-me-the-sequel-now, mind numbing experience. I can understand why a game like this would deserve a sequel, but even today I couldn't have predicted the amount of games it would spawn.