Since last night I've been waiting to do this review, because I've been studying the exact differences from RE2 and RE Directors Cut. This review will really help for someone who has played RE2 but is wondering what RE DC is about. Well, you've came to the right place.  First of all, here are the facts:
1. Each zombie takes 5 shots NO MATTER WHAT. (with the Beretta)
2. Jill is a blonde all though she doesn't look like it (a very dumb blonde)
3. BARRY HAS A MAGNUM AND HES PROUD!!!
4. You have to kill zombies up to four times if you leave the room when you shoot them down. (that means they come back alive once they are dead and you leave the room...the just pop up!)
5. This game has hilarious dialogue!
  Well, speaking of dialogue, the grammar is also very bad...and I mean VERY bad. Examples are: (when you pick up the 1st floor map)  "You got the 1st floor map"  RE2 says "you've taken the 1st floor map" that makes more sense.  "You got the acid rounds"...funny sometimes. Also, what I found is that Jill doesn't know what blood is. Barry is inspecting a pool of red liquid on the dining room floor. Jill comes over and has the nerve to ask "What is it?" and she stays there and studies it...??? Barry replies with "I THINK it is blood. I hope this is not Chris's blood!"  And they have exaggeration at the completely wrong times. But when there is a big monster coming they just talk "wow. its a monster. what do we do?"  and when there is like a door that doesnt open (during movie scenes) they say "THIS DOOR WONT OPEN!! WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO??" Also, a really hilarious part is when Barry hands Jill the acid rounds Jill says that he should keep them for himself, and Barry replies "No that's okay...I have THIS!!!" And holds up his Magnum...I laughed my head off...he sounded so stupid! No offence to the makers of RE or anything but it is just so funny!
  Another fact is that the camera angles are bad, but the puzzles are harder. Hmmm? Resident Evil is a very very very good game...but it is just the dialogue and camera angles...ive been talking it down but now its time to tell you that it is DEFINATELY worth getting, despite it's happy mediums.
So theres a few final things I have to say here:
1. Barry has a magnum 2. Wesker has shades 3. And the three zombies at the top of the stairs above the M Storeroom 1F sound like cows.
  Cheers! ~Jongles