This Director's Cut is the only version of this game you should own, simply because it supports the Analogue joysticks on the Playstation controller. The control in the other versions is impossible at times, and a bugger to learn if you are a first time player.
The game by itself is excellent. Lot's of puzzles, and lots of Zombies to shoot down. There are times (many of them, actually) where you much be careful how many zombies you shoot, because you can run low on bullets very quickly. The story is standard for any Survival Horror game: A group of soldiers are locked in an old mansion that is infested with zombies. An evil company has eperimented with a chemical that turns people into zombies, and the fallout turns the WHOLE TOWN into zombies. To survive, you must make your way through the mansion, and solve all the puzzles. This is definitely a challenge, and one that can be frustrating at times, but rewarding once completed.
Here are the pros. The graphics are superb. The detailing of the zombies and the surroundings give you are real sense of dread, and yes, the blood flow is well detailed, it sprays when you are wounded. The music is ominous and ambient, giving just the right mood to the situations you come across. The story is also well put together, even though anyone who has seen George Romero's "Living Dead" trilogy (and what horror fan hasn't?) can get a sense of deja vu. All these elements make this a game well worth getting.
Now for the cons. This game is not the toughest game for the Playstation, but it can be darn frustrating when you get stuck. Sometimes, a puzzle is very tricky and requires you to back-track just to see if you missed anything. This adds much more time to the game, but not in a good way. There is also the frustration of running low on bullets when there are three zombies coming towards you. Each zombie requires about three bullets each to finish them off, but bullets are so scarce that you must conserve. Also, the acting and dialogue is so hammy that it is comical, and you feel compelled to just skip through it so you can get back to killing zombies.
Overall, this is a great game with a few shortcomings. But then again, nothing is perfect. If the Survival Horror concept sounds appealing, then you should check this one out. The "Resident Evil" series has become the benchmark of Survival Horror much like "Final Fantasy" has for the RPG genre.