I had this game given to me for free years ago on the PC format. I liked it, but for some reason it crashed on me one day and I mustve done something to the disc, 'cause it never worked or would reinstall on any computer after that.

All these years later I've just picked it up, second hand, for the N64. And I must say there is not really any difference between the PC version and the 64 version, which is a good thing!

The only difference is in the movies. The PC and I 'spose gaystation version had the movies & ending in video form, where as the 64 replicates them the same way using the polygons of the 3d characters themselves. I have no complaint about it, I like it wether it's video form, or 3D poly form. They both still tell the same story. Except Reiko who just walks off into a portal.. the other versions show what happens when he goes into the portal, he puts on his Shoa Kahn mask!!!! shame thats not in it.

All the codes and moves where the same, and I like the fact that the PRACTIVE mode allows you to press pause and choose a list that displays all the characters moves, fatalitys and weapens etc... tho, i'm really kind of sick of the combinations of move lifts, which makes it great to just go into the options, highlight "continues #" and hold down block+run untill it takes you to the hidden menu where you can turn on auto fatalitys and stuff.

The only bad thing I can say about the game is what it should have had included. It needed to be fixed so that the auto fatalitys worked like in MK: TRILOGY (All platforms EXCEPT the N64 version) where each button freformed a diffrent fatality (2 fats, freindship, babality etc..) that about it.

This game is one of the best head to head fighter games. Unfortunatly the team at Crapcom decided to make a billion versions of Street Fighter for every other system... talk about over kill... but they didn't wanna make one for the 64, so thats there loss, which means Mortal Kombat is the best head to head fighter on the 64 if you ask me.

This game is actualy converted to the 64 straight from the arcade and then extras where added in after that, which makes it better then the arcade. Like the fact you can play as Goro & Noobsaibot, and a skinless character named Meat (go to GameFaq,com for the codes)

MK is the best head to head fighter on the N64 in this realm.