I tried the Crash 2 PlayStation game about 1998 and it was delightful. It was, in fact, so delightful that I looked around for the first part to start from the proper point.
When I started playing the first part, I was disappointed by the difference of the story, but, still, It was a nice game.
The graphics are excellent. The story is original. It speaks about a genetically engineered dog, named Crash, that resembles human beings. This genetic procedure was done by Dr Cortex (or more precisely by his degraded assistant). Then Dr Cortex goes on the produce a new female version of this Crash. Of course crash falls in love with her. Dr Cortex, being a wicked soul, parts between the two and then Crash needs to go through so many obstacles to reach his lover.
So many levels are divided into islands, and each set of levels is followed by a bad boss. Some are hard and some are easy. It depends in your skill in such games. The story is concluded by a battle between this Crash and Dr Cortex. If you win then you got it.
And to complicate life even more, the designers introduced the concept of gaining gems. If you get all the gems you can continue the game in a new fashion. I aint saying it 'cause I don't want to spoil things for you. To attain these gems is a difficult task. As for me, I got them but after being kicked in the teeth for it. You should not even dream of getting the gems in order of levels. No, mon ami, some times you have to go to a certain advanced level to get a "green gem," for instance, to get the gem in the, say, fourth level. You would have to check the net for the tricks, dirty if I may, and the hidden places. Good luck in that.
There is "aku-aku," which is a mask that is considered as an extra life if you get touched by any of the enemies. Take 3 aku-akus and you become invincible for some seconds and you kill any of the enemies by a mere touch.
Of course, there are saving stations. You do not get to save after every level. This is a drawback. Saving stations are also level you have to jump, crush, step on dynamite, and so on. If you fall down, you cannot save, you have to go to the next saving station. It is hare, I am telling you.
The game is great, and if you win with a 100 per-cent then you are the man!
Crash 2 (5 Stars):
The Best Game Ever:
This game has everything the first part lacked. It has even better graphics. This was the first one of the crash series I tried, and it was fun. Before that, I was hooked on fighting games, like street fighters, and tekken, but they are not that fun after playing it a 100 times or so. In this game you can spend as much time without losing interest.
It is, more or less, like the first part. There is aku-aku, boxes to crash, gems (more difficult), new bosses after each floor. And by the by, this game is divided into 5 floors, each floor with 5 doors, each door with a different adventure. You can finish the game, like I did the first time, without collecting gems, but it is not that fun. Hint: If you break all the boxes of one level you are rewarded a gem. There are hidden levels for some gems, you would have to consult the internet for it. Good luck in that.
In this part you can save after each level, it is easier in that respect. I find the gems easier to collect than in the first forbidding game. The designs of the adventure is by far better than the firs.
The story line is change a little bit. Instead of the "Pamela Anderson" of a lover Crash had, he gets a more geeky "Meg Ryan" of a sister. Dr Cortex is still missing things up. The assistant from the first part does not appear except when he tries to communicate Crash to warn him from Cortex. You want to know more? Get the gems first.
There is also a sixth hidden floor. You would have to reach it by a trick, and again check the net for that.
The game was the best I have ever tried. It makes my life harder, since I cannot find better games to play anymore. It will make you look for other adventures of Crash.