Crash Bandicoot's my favorite video game character and all his work is genius.  I'm looking forward to his latest video game installment, Crash Tag Team Racing.  The game's graphics are good, the gameplay itself sounds amuzing, and the trailer (on GameSpot) prove how visually stunning it's going to be too.  But, Crash's humble beginning is not the same as Mario and Sonic's were.  It was much better, more creative, and bigger.

Mario's was just an arcade game.  It was hard, but it didn't take to long to master it, and I don't even know if there was a boss.  Sonic's debut was better then Mario's.  A game you could play without spending money, good levels, challenging, better bosses, and a special ending you could view if you collected all the items necessary.  But, these debuts lacked what Crash's had.  Most challenging, best bosses, better secret ending, and most of all, a 3-D world to play in.

Crash's world is not fully 3-D in this game (in fact up till Crash Twinsanity, none of them have been), but it is very good as far as it goes.  The VIRTUAL world looks like the REAL world.  That's one of the game's strongest points.  The controls are very solid and Crash responds amazingly well to your commands.  This spoiled me.  I'd play a Crash game and then go play something else with looser controls and be upset by the lack of response.  I became versatile after a while though.  Crash lacks moves in this game, but he has more then Sonic and/or Mario had in their debut games.  Crash has 3, Mario and Soinc only had 1.  Crash's moves are running, jumping, and spinning.  The spinnig move is an extremely creative thing.  To make up for Sonic's spin, Naughty Dog brought out the bigger and better guns.  Crash's spin is much easier to control and is much more effective.  It also doesn't threaten you in a strange, almost indescribable way.  Sonic's spin reqired that you dash in the direction that you were facing before you started spinning.  Sega called this the spin dash.  This could throw you to your death.  Not Crash's.  Crash could move or stay still when spinning.  Note: Soinc didn't have the spin dash in his debut game.  Mario and Sonic's jumping, I'll admit, was better.  They were tighter then Crash.  Their direction could be changed much, much easier then Crash when jumping.  Crash jumps higher though.  Crash runs kind of slow, especially when you need to get something done. But he's slower in Crash Twinsanity.  Crash's camera control is hardly ever a problem.  Every once in a while you'll have to strain your eye a little, but it's still a better camera then Soinc's.  Mario's is best out of all, though, 'cause you could see the entire level all at once.

As for the other features of the game, they're pretty outstanding.  The levels are big and challenging.  There's also secret levels in Crash.  I've never seen anything like that in Sonic 1 or Donkey Kong, have you?  No, I didn't think so.  Crash's biggest flaw is the saving system.  In the game, you must collect 3 tokens of Crash's girfriend's head (hidden in the level) to get to a bonus area.  You must get to the end of the Tawna (Crash's girlfriend's name is Tawna) Bonus Round, touch Tawna (who's just standing there), and then exit the Tawna Bonus Round via a warp pad in order to save.  If you don't do exactly what I said had to be done in order to save, you don't get to save. Not fair at all.  But, it's still better then Sonic 1 or Donkey Kong, 'cause you can't save at all in those games.  There are also two other kinds of bonus rounds in the game, The Cortex (main bad guy of the game) Bonus Rounds and the Brio (Cortex's right-hand man) Bonus Rounds.  You can't save in these bonus rounds, even if you get to the end of them without falling off the platforms.  Oh and get this, there aren't Tawna Bonus Rounds in all the levels, so you don't have a chance to save if your parents tell you to get off and you're in a level like Hog Wild where there's no bonus rounds.  Big flaw.  The 2nd biggest flaw is the way you have to collect gems.  In the game you must collect 32 (I think; don't quote me on that number, because I'm not sure) gems in order to see the secret ending.  However, it's a little too hard to collect them all.  I understand most people think the game's not hard enough, but I think it's a little too hard.  To collect a gem, you must destroy every single crate in a level and get to the end without losing a life.  I'm all for destroying every crate, but I think you should be able to lose a life and still get the gem.  It should only matter if you destroy all the boxes.

So, if you're wanting to compare Mario and Sonic to Crash, I'd say Crash all the way.  And, as you can see, if you're reading this, Crash's 1st game was much better then Mario and Sonic's.  I say Crash is best, no matter what anyone else tells me.