This is one of my favorite games from the playstation series. When it first came out in 1996, needless to say I was blown away by the 3D directional jumping. It was my first playstation game. Of course there were some issues that I had with the game but it was the first of its kind and it paved the way for improvements. Some reviews have said how the game is hard. I agree to a point. I started playing it when I was in 5th grade and I still have a copy today but at that time it was a new concept to grasp playing a game with 3D controls versus simpler 2D controls from the Nintendo or Sega. But after a while and many Bandicoots being eaten, crushed, boiled in acid, drowning, or falling into dark abysses I came out on top. There are some levels that are still difficult for me (Lights Out for example) but I relish in the challenge it brings.

Too hard for young kids some people say? So was the original Mario Bros from 1985 at one point. Ignoring secret jumping techniques with turtle shells, lives were hard to come by and you definitely needed them for the later worlds. In Crash Bandicoot they practically give lives away because the levels are fairly challenging throughout the game. For example, Boulder Dash wiped out the 50 some lives I had accumulated the first time got to that level.

I agree with other people about the way that you save in that it is kind of annoying but we take that for granted today anyway. In prior games, like Mario 1985, if you got a game over it was back to the beginning of the world you died in. In this game, it's back to the last level you were at before you saved. Maybe the creators were trying to make it a challenging game by doing it that way. In that I say they succeeded.

For a platform gamer, this game has a nice blend of 3D motion with 2D side scrolling in a colorful environment that was pretty good visually for the graphics at the time. It definitely took you to a different world. The music for the various levels was appropriate and entertaining. Come on, remember Hog Wild? Good times riding that boar! It had a very linear type of progression but it was not too unlike Super Mario World with the coin shaped levels on the overworld map. The bonus rounds were indeed difficult but you could always replay them, minus the saving bonuses once you saved, and never lose lives in the bonus rounds. Aku aku was there in my time of need, especially when toxic barrels were bouncing my way. He is a different but unique take on the power ring or mushroom, flower, star buffs from the other iconic heroes. I am not saying Crash Bandicoot is better than other platform games before him, but he is unique and has his own style that improved in the titles that came after. I give this game a 9 out of 10 or 4.5 stars.