Lets go back in time to one of my favorite PlayStation icons: Crash Bandicoot. For those who don't know, Crash Bandicoot is a fictional Eastern Barred Bandicoot who was genetically enhanced by the evil Doctor Neo Cortex who then escaped and set out to stop the evil scientist and his plans. Crash would appear in many games, but the ones I hold dear are the original three on the first PlayStation: Crash Bandicoot, Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back and Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped. With that said, lets take a look at the first one in the series.

The first Crash Bandicoot game was released way back in 1996 with Naughty Dog developing the game, Sony Computer Entertainment publishing it and Universal Interactive Studios being the distributors. It was a PlayStation exclusive, but would eventually get re-released as a PS One Classic on the PlayStation Store to be played on the PlayStation 3. The game is definitely kid friendly and appropriate for all ages, Crash Bandicoot is basically a Mario ripoff but a very good one none the less who came up with several original ideas. The story goes that Crash Bandicoot was created by Doctor Neo Cortex and his henchmen Doctor Nitrus Brio. Crash escapes the experiments but leaves his girlfriend Tawna in the process and Crash is swept up to an island and sets out to go rescue her and stop the villains. Whats weird is that this is the only Crash Bandicoot game on the PlayStation in which Tawna appears in, I don't know why though, its definitely unusual. But nonetheless, lets continue with the game.

The first thing that stands out are the graphics, the graphics for 1996 looked fantastic, they were even better than Super Mario 64 on Nintendo 64 which was released a month later. It definitely gets an A+ for presentation. The game was a huge hit and was the first non-Japanese game to achieve commercial success in the country. Now, lets discuss the actual gameplay.

The game is nonetheless a platformer in which you control Crash Bandicoot across three islands to defeat Doctor Cortex and rescue your girlfriend. The game is split into levels with one basic goal: get to the end without dying. You start out with four lives and its one hit deaths from being touched by enemies or falling into water or a pit. Yeah, its weird how water kills Crash even though he fell in the water at the introduction and was floating away to one of the islands and survived. Why is it that these characters who are very athletic cant figure out how to swim? I hate games that do this because when you see water, you're never sure if the game will allow you to swim. Its stupid and whats weird is that in the third game Crash does swim underwater with scuba gear. So really the game is a huge contradiction of itself.

You can get more one ups by finding them across levels or collecting 100 apples which are basically the coins of Super Mario Bros, but the apples are everywhere in this game so its really easy to get a one up, you could literally get at least three lives per level. Attack moves include jumping in the air and landing on an enemy or using a spin move in a tornado fashion to knock enemies off-screen, I like that, even if its a rip-off of Super Mario World. You also find this Mask that helps you on your journey, if you find it, it gives you an extra hit point, but you don't actually wear the mask it just follows you. If you get three masks without losing one, you turn invincible for a brief time much like the Starmans in Super Mario Bros.

The boxes are also a rip-off of Super Mario Bros. in which they have question marks on them and you have to destroy the boxes to gain prizes. But not all boxes are the same, there are boxes without question marks, arrow boxes that propel you in the air, boxes with exclamation marks which makes boxes appear out of nowhere, checkpoint boxes that act as a save spot for the level and TNT boxes which explode after three seconds when you jump on them, whatever you do, don't spin attack them because they will immediately explode.

A strange feature in these boxes is that you can get Tawna tokens that act as a bonus level so you can get some extra fruit and one ups. Whats weird is that Tawna is in this level but she doesnt let you rescue her for some odd reason, but whats even stranger is that completing the bonus level is the only way to save the game or get a password. I don't understand why early PlayStation games didn't allow you to save anytime you want. Every video game that can support a memory card should do that, I hate writing down passwords so I can continue. But the password is only eight digits and the main buttons on the PlayStation controller act as the characters so its at least not a long and annoying password.

If you complete an entire level without losing a life and manage to destroy all the boxes, youll get rewarded with a gem, this was a flaw with the game because it makes the game way too damn hard and every future Crash Bandicoot game let you get the gem even if you die as long as you break all the crates. Some gems can act as platforms to help you get across areas that are impossible to reach, much like the vine in Super Mario Bros.

Now while this game has some flaws, its still a good game overall, its not as good as the second and third game, but its definitely fun and enjoyable. The creativity is good, has a good challenge and the graphics are fantastic. If you have a PlayStation Network account, give this game a chance, its only $6 on the PlayStation Store so its not expensive or anything. Its definitely a classic.

FINAL RATING:  8 out of 10