My first experience with the Resident Evil series was with Code: Veronica X.  I was severely disappointed overall with it, and from what I've read, the whole series is the same, so I had little to no faith in it.  I didn't feel the need whatsoever to play the other games, and openly spoke out against the series, even though I only played one game.  But, after playing Resident Evil 4, I got intrigued by the story, so I decided to try out Resident Evil 1-3.  I thought, "There's no way they can be worse than Code: Veronica, so why not?"  And good god... was I right.

Although the first RE was little more than a big laughable joke (thanks to the ridiculously horrible voice acting that makes what you find in Code: Veronica X look like an Oscar-winning performance), that wasn't really scary at all until the hunters came into the picture, the second iteration really blew me away.  Anybody who has known me for more than two seconds knows I don't care at all about graphics in a videogame, so I'm not going to say anything about them because it is irrelevant (which is why I'm not a GameCube or Xbox fan).  The gameplay is very good for a survival horror - there is plenty of puzzle solving, adventure, exploration, and combat to keep the interest level up.  That's what I like about survival horror: it's not just about fighting to stay alive, but it is also about exploring and solving puzzles to unravel the plot and make sense out of mysterious circumstances.  And, while Resident Evil 2 isn't anywhere near as scary or intricate in story as the Silent Hill series, it is still a top-notch game to play for any fan of the genre, and I highly recommend it.  The first one you can play on your own; I just played it because I wanted to know what Wesker did to get Chris so ticked off with him, and vice versa.  The reason the title of my review is "I was wrong..." is because I really was wrong in assuming that the Resident Evil series was a bunch of bunk and no worth anyone's time.  So, I apologize for being a presumptuous jerk.

But, there is one issue I just can't stop from addressing: the controversy over the control scheme.  Now, I won't go into one of my trademark rants insulting everybody, but I will state my thoughts from an objective point of view.  The reason survival horror games have such awkward controls is because the game developers wanted it that way.  This is a genre for puzzle solving, plotlines, exploration, and thought, not just about shooting things.  They made the controls this way to render it, in a way, a sort of "anti-action" type of game genre.  Still, though, once you get used to the controls, like me, you will have no trouble blasting zombies torsos in two soon enough.

Another thing that is cool about this game is the zombies and their... "creative" death sequences (okay, so maybe they die a second time, but this time for good).  Naturally, you can blow their heads off, but even more possibilities await your execution.  Sometimes, you can fire at them and their arm will be severed by your bullets, or with a shotgun you can shoot them at the base of their spine and they will be blasted in half, the upper section of their body crawling on the ground with its arms alone to try and bite you.  When you upgrade your shotgun later on, you can actually blow their chest in half!  And, with a rocket launcher, if you fire at them square in their torso, their arms, head, and a good portion of their upper body will be gone.  If you hit them to the right side, most of said side will be gone, as will their head and respective arm, yet their left arm will still be attached.  Pretty cool, huh?  Code: Veronica X didn't have anything like that, which is rather too bad.

The only problem I had with this game, and it really isn't a problem with the game itself, is that it really made me shake my head at Code: Veronica X.  It almost seems as if Capcom had taken a huge step backward in their videogame-making abilities.  Heck, even the first Resident Evil is better than REC:VX.  For example, in the first one, the hunters had narrow, sharp, reptilian eyes, rows of razor-sharp teeth that protruded from their mouths, and they looked pretty scary, but in Code: Veronica, they didn't have such teeth (it almost looked like they didn't have any at all), and they also had small, beady eyes, making them more of a joke than an intimidating enemy.

Yet another good part about this game is the Titan.  I must say, he is really one heck of a bad guy.  But, of course, he's nowhere near as bad*ss as the Nemesis or as terrifying as Pyramid Head.  But he's cool nonetheless.

So, in conclusion, if you like survival horror games, then I suggest you try this one out.  But don't expect it to be better than Silent Hill, if you're a fan of that series (just as a side note).