Resident Evil 2 was one of the best Psx games back in the mid 90's as it had exclusive rights to Sony.  The game was the sequal to one of the best Survival Horror game ever.  Does this do better then its prediseccor?...YES.  OH HELL YES.  The game is a solid good game.  The story line is really entertaining but it was more of a sci fi then a horror story.  I won't spoil the story for you but the game is 2 discs and you control 2 characters(serpartly) in the game.  One is a cop named Leon Kennedy and the other is female after her missing brother Chris(who was in RE1)and the two end up meeting eachother and the rest you can figure out..

I really enjoyed this game, it was fantastic.  I loved the graphics for this game it was just "wow".  The game is pretty short if you play only one half of the character you play as.  They both have 2 parts(kina).  Once you complete that characters game it opens up the second of half of the other character.  The game is fairly lenghy if you play the WHOLE game.  The game has some great twists that'll keep you up all night.  Lemmi make it easier for you...Resident Evil 2 was one of the coolest Playstation games ever.  It had an awesome story line, sweet graphics and decent dialoug.  It is also spooky in the scare factor especially when you see something crawl around a window in the beggining of the game.  In other words the game is awesome and scary.

The graphics for that time were just great and comparable to Metal Gear Solid.  The character model for Leon and Clair was amazing and the zombies looked even more creepy then before, not to mention the bloody gore in this game....jeez.  Capcom did a great job making the graphics.  kudose..

The gameplay is what really made me love this game.  Gun n' down zombies and solving puzzle...my type of game baby.  The Puzzle are not that hard but they are pretty cool.  The gameplay never gets boring and the boss fights are really cool.  The gameplay may turn some off in the beggining.  Mainly cause it's just runing away from zombies but later on that will change...trust me..

The sound is incredible!  The zombies sound so realistic and the music for the boss fights are magnifecent(my spelling sucks I know).  The sound it self deserves a one star...

What turned me off was the "kina cheezy sci fi" story.  It didn't have the same spooky feeling Resident Evil 1 had in story...which causes me to take off one star...Well yeah it was a stupid move just for that but hey that's my opinion...

The games has amazing graphics, great sound, lots of awesome gameplay and is one of my favorite video game series.  Not only that it may possibly be the best in the series if not then It's 3.

This game deserves a

4.8 out 5....

Resident Evil series is a superb series and anyone who loves survival horror will love it.  I personaly think it's one of the best gaming series out but I don't have ALL the resident Evil games.. The only ones I have are the one that go with the story like the ones I have are

And for any newbie out there who is trying to get into the series, if you have a gamecube and get the remake of the original and start with that...then 2, 3 then Resident Evil zero which is a really enjoyable Resident Evil game...Well

Lates..