I will open with the Pros:
Replayability - It's Hitman. What did you expect? You can go back and replay missions over and over to try for a cleaner, quicker kill or just fly right through it in a weekend like I did.
Length of game - Do not listen to reviews such as Xbox Official Magazine saying it is a lengthy game. I finished it in one weekend. Friday night, Sat and Sunday. I would estimate around 10-12 hours solid play. BUT..If you go back and replay the missions for a better score, then it can drag out much further. But like I said, to play through and complete the tasks, it is not a long game.
Story - Not bad at all. A few plot holes made me scratch my head but not bad.
Overall Graphics - Better than the old Hitman games but nothing at all like cut scenes. Don't confuse cut scenes in the trailers as gameplay.
Character dev - Although they give you a little info on specific targets, it didn't seem worth the effort to look any deeper into their back story. I just went forth on a killing spree. You point me in that direction? Here I go. There's no option to ever take a person into custody and question them. You kill anyone who you are pointed at.
Hand to hand - They kept it simple. between space bar, "Q, W or E" were your controls to hit when it told you to hit that key. It wasn't hard to do hand to hand. It wasn't 100% awesome like Batman but it was pretty good.
Cons:
OMG why did all the people in close-up cut scenes talk with all their teeth showing? It really got annoying. I have never in my life met a person who talks like that. Also, the timing of the voice acting was bad. Serious delays in dialogue had me thinking the conversation was over then it started up again. So, voice acting wasn't bad, but developers did a poor job clipping it.
Graphics - In regards to clipping, I would sometimes get blocked by phantom walls while sneaking up steps. I had to walk back and forth until it let me pass. Also, it would say there was a key point right in front of me (blinking sonar circles) and there was nothing there. No desk, nothing to pick up and it was floating in the air. More developer issues.
(Minor Spoiler) Don't read if you can't take hints.
Sheer ease of killing other professional hitmen was a let down. I couldn't believe how easy it was to kill hired professionals.

Professional Edition: Do not waste your money. I got some weapons you can't even use in the game. It gives you the loadout at the begining and the weapons around the map are all based off that part of the game. No point in having access to the additional weapons.
Sniper challenge is ONE challenge. I beat it hands down and it never took me to a new challenge. It just lets you do the same challenge over and over.
All in all, it's a good game discounted at 1/2 price or lower. Don't waste your $ on the Pro Edition.