*The title is a quote from the final boss, Andross*

A more accurate rating for this game, overall, is really 4.5 stars; but, of course, Amazon won't let you grade in "half stars."  A true masterpiece, Starfox 64 stands as one of the greatest games ever created for the Nintendo 64, and perhaps even all time.  I recently got it as my first and only Star Fox title; and, though I'm normally not a fan of games with shooting and space ships like this, this game succeeded in impressing!  Analyzing its features step by step, it's pretty hard to find reasons why this game shouldn't be loved:

Storyline 10/10: The story is absolutely captivating!  Though it starts out pretty simple and generic (the galaxy and Corneria are being threatened by Venom, someone save us, etc.) the backstory behind it is pretty detailed, the intro is epic, and the story itself takes on a whole new life when you start playing!  Actually, YOU are the one who controls the story to a degree: you can pretty much decide, through skill and/or choice, whether things go great or awful for the Star Fox team, a heroic pilot crew you can manipulate.  You control Fox McCloud, and only Fox McCloud, but you also associate with the three pilots of Peppy, Slippy, and Falco; why, just protecting Falco and doing certain actions on the first level can decide which way the story goes!  This game does a great job of drawing you into its world and making you want to figure out what's happening.

Characters 9/10: I have to commend whoever came up with these interesting characters: they make the game!  Even on your own crew, each one is distinctive: Falco, for example, plays along the lines of "the tough guy with a secretly caring heart."  Peppy is like the fatherly instructive type, and Slippy plays along the lines of a new school boy.  Finally, Fox, the same character you control, often takes on a reserved leadership role (which makes sense).  Each one has his own quirks; and, though any of them can be annoying on a certain level, you can't help but feel a degree of liking for each of them.  Their lines, though perhaps epic for the time, can be somewhat cheesy and/or cliche (Peppy's, "It's Quiet . . . too quiet." is a good example); but the cheesiness adds to what is oddly a funny and light-hearted game.  You often can't help but think, "I shouldn't be laughing at this," but you'll laugh anyway.  It's just that kind of game.  The A.I. of each character on maneuvering is decent; but, until you get skilled enough, it can be hard not to shoot at them or let enemies get them, as they get in your way at the oddest times (then fuss at you when you do hit them).  Peppy occasionally gives advice that doesn't particularly help either, though it hardly ever hurts if you follow it.  Speaking of advice, though, the game can make you depend on your characters if you're newer at it, as they can each do something useful: Peppy gives advice and often tells you where to shoot, Slippy analyzes boss health meters, and Falco often covers you.  If someone gets shot down, you'll miss him.  Finally, the characters are also pretty life-like in behavior: try shooting down enemies that Falco is chasing on some levels, and listen to his reaction to it.

Graphics 9/10: Some issues with fog (common for Nintendo 64 games), but otherwise absolutely beautiful.  The fog itself, even, can be justified, as you spend most of your time in the air.  Though many stages take either a purely generic "spacial" theme, such as the asteroid field, the planets are really intuitive.  In this game you can find a volcanic environment, which even mimics the "wavy" effects of heat, an ocean environment (full of fish and plant life), a couple of cities, a train depot . . . the works!  The most interesting graphics you could see, however, has to be the part of the asteroid field you can "warp" to.  Though it probably looks like you've taken a medication or something else you shouldn't have, you can't deny the mysterious beauty of that point in the level. . . . Please note, however, that what levels you see depends on what paths through the game you take; like the story, it's dependent upon your actions in the levels.

Mechanics 9/10: This covers things like controls, ability to save, and learning curve (whether it's easy or hard to master).  The controls, though they work well, are pretty complicated to learn.  This complication, however, is eased by the nice training mode they threw in; a few rounds in training mode, and you'll pretty much have them down!  The game can still be pretty tough to a degree, though; however, I was able to nearly make it through the entire game on one of my first three rounds (and I'm usually not too hot at games like this), before the Star Wolf team finished me off (they're pretty tough if you don't know how to handle them right).  Make sure to master the somersault maneuver; I've never seen a game force you to rely on it as heavily as this one!  In terms of saving, I was disappointed: there's no way to save; and, unlike what some people say, there's no password feature either.  You'll probably get sick of the first level for that reason.  While it's not a deal breaker, this game isn't for the busy person who's looking to play for only an hour or less and quit.  If you want to experience the true value of this game, you'd better set aside at least a couple of hours for it.  The lack of a save feature is the biggest thing that kept me from giving this game a perfect score, as I kept catching myself thinking, "This game would be perfect if only it had a save feature!"

Music and Sound 10/10: No complaints in the music and sound department!  It pretty much captures the mood, be it suspenseful, hopeful, dramatic, or even rewarding.  The character voices are also well done, awesomely portraying the character personalities as well.  I can't describe any of this justly, though; you'll have to listen for yourself!

Conclusion: Star Fox 64 is a face of near perfection, if only a few small blemishes hadn't reared their ugly heads.  Multiplayer, I hear, is lacking; but, overall, none of the minor flaws in this game are major dealbreakers.  Personally, I recommend this game to people who are bored and have a lot of time on their hands; the replay value is great with its various paths!  The final boss can be downright creepy, and . . . well, I think any critique could easily go on forever!  Long story short, this game is an absolute steal at the cheap price it's at now.  A fond memory in many gamers hearts, this Star Fox 64 still remains as a highly recommended game to play!