Deep Cover Gecko is the third and last Gex game to be made. This entry was made with the help of british developer EIDOS in exchange for Crystal Dynamics' help in producing Soul Reaver and Tomb Raider: Revelations, but I digress.
This game picks up after Gex: Enter the Gecko with series baddie Rez kidnapping Gex's partner, Agent Xtra. Gex then heads back to the Media Dimension to save Extra and stop Rez once again.
Gex 3 is the second 3D Gex game and is unique in a few ways. Firstly, none of the levels repeat. In previous Gex games you would encounter multiple levels with the same theme. For example you'd complete a level based on horror films and then later in the game you'ld come across another one. Each level in Gex 3 on the other hand is unique. There is only one level per theme. One Mystery channel, one Anime channel, etc.
The Gameplay is largely the same as it was in Gex: Enter the Gecko. You control the camera with the shoulder buttons this time around, but it can still be a major problem when judging distance while platofrming. The other addition is a number of costumes that give you minor upgrades, like a vampire cape to glide, a superhero costume, or a tunic to make you strong. These are interesting and add some variety, however they're under utilized and don't show up very often. This game also appeared on the N64, however there are fewer voice clips and no 3D cutscenes. The other difference between the two is that the Mythology channel, a parody of the old Hercules movies and Clash of the Titans, has a different level design. On the PS1 it's set on Mt Olympus, and on the N64 it's set in Hades. Now a game changer, but a nifty fact.
Dana Gould returns to voice Gex, who is still amusing to listen to and Marliece Andrea plays Agent Xtra. If you're playing a PAL version Gex is played by Danny John-Jules, known for playing The Cat on BBC's Red Dwarf. The unique levels have their own set of jokes which greatly reduces the chance of repetition which was a problem with the previous games.

It's a shame that no new games have been made since, but this was a pretty good conclusion. It's a great PS1 game and a solid title for 3D platforming fans all around.