The last time we saw Gex which was in the game called Gex: Enter the gecko he saved t.v. from a robot named Rez. Kinda wierd huh? Well in this game a woman named Agent Xtra was captured by Rez. When Gex was at home thinking about his last successes he decided to watch the news. When he was in the middle of watching the news he saw that Agent Xtra was captured by Rez. So Gex decided to go and save Agent Xtra. So he goes to the Gex caves and starts his new adventure.
What you gotta do is you have to go to new t.v. levels and collect as many t.v. remotes as you can. Remember, the more remotes you collect the closer you will get to Rez. In this game Gex wears all sorts of different costumes like Hercugex, Supergex, Privategex, Dracugex, Little Red Riding Gex, and Sherlockgex. There is a whole lot more, but I cannot name them all. Gex also has rides too like Al Nino the donkey which can help Gex go up hills that are too slippery for Gex to climb and Humps the camel which can help Gex cross sinky sand and there are a few others. There are secret characters that you can play in the bonus rounds, but you have to find them first before you can play them. There is Rex which is Gex's prehistoric ancestor and Cuz which is Gex's cousin.
This game is really fun to play and not only that, the graphics are very nice and colorful. The colors in this game are much brighter than the other Gex games which makes this game even better and more fun to play, but the camera is a bit slow, but that is ok. You will get used to it after a while. The bad thing about this game is that there is adult language in it. It says bad words like d--- and s---. While you are playing this game you will hear really, really, really funny one-liners from Gex, but some of them have bad words in the one-liners or shall we say quotes. Believe me do not let kids under the age of 10 to play this game. That was the reason why I gave this game a four star instead of a five star. But hey, this game is okay for the whole family anyway, if you have a child that is younger than the age of ten and you don't want your child to hear the bad words than you are lucky, because there is a way to turn off the voice of Gex that way Gex won't even speak at all. You can turn the Voice from Gex off by going to the pause menu.
Well that is all I have to say about Gex3: Deep cover Gecko. If you ever buy this game I hope you will like it as much as I did. Thanks for taking your time to read my review. ( - -,) ( ^ ^,) :)