I have to admit, as much as I want to praise this game, it is mostly wasted potential.  Even though this game came out in the later stage of the N64's run, it has the graphics of a third party release title. (Read: They're not all that great.)  Everything about the game reaches towards high concepts, but almost nothing reaches its goal.  The idea is that you are a timetraveling hero who has to save the world from various attacks from interstellar insects throughout history.  While the story is pure fluff, the gameplay (at least in theory) is not.  DMA is well known for the Grand Theft Auto series of games, and Body Harvest follows a similar formula.  You shoot things, then you get into various vehicles and shoot more things.  The main difference is that in Body Harvest you don't want to run innocent people over.
The controls are innovative and simple, but not very well implimented.  Its easy to get the hang of walking and driving the multitudes of cars/boats/planes/tanks, but the controls are too lose for your character to move around with much precision.  In addition, the aiming system also fails to live up to its high concept.  Basically you press the aim button, which brings up a cool looking recticule, but limits your movements.  However, since the enemies are so slow and predictable, and the areas are so spacious, battles boil down to mere shooting galleries.  When the enemies get tougher, faster, and more numerous in the later levels, it remains a shooting gallery, just with the bugs doing the shooting.  At this point in the game, vehicles become not just the coolest part of the game (and they are cool) but totally necissary, since you are toast without them even on the easy difficulty.  Combat in vehicles, even with aiming cababilities, usually devolve into shooting whatever is right in front of you.
Basically, this is a high concept game that didn't quite make the grade and feels very rushed (despite the fact that I waited a long time during its extended development.)  Furthermore, with the next generation systems now on the market, the graphics and framerate become simply unacceptable and this game might be better off when viewed as a curiousity piece or a very early beta of Grand Theft Auto 3,