Electronic Arts was one of a small group of third party developers that supported the N64 with a decent amount of games. One of them, Beetle Adventure Racing, was exclusive to the system and proved to be one of the best racing games to grace the Nintendo 64. Released in 1999, it was an arcade racer with the physics seen in serious racers but poked fun at itself all throughout the game.

In BAR, you pick from a variety of Volkswagen Beetles and choose from one player mode(single and championship), two player mode(race only) and beetle battle mode (two to four players.) Select from one of six tracks (first one only available from the start.) and you're off! There are tons of stuff to unlock and the only way to get everything is by playing through the championship mode and beating the four difficulty levels. As you pass each track, it becomes available in the other game modes. As you beat the game under each difficulty level, you unlock additional versions of Beetles. There are "number" boxes scattered throughout each track. They count as points and need to be collected to earn "continues" and depending on the difficulty level, you need a certain amount. You can earn up to 100 points; collect them all and you unlock a multi-player track for the Beetle Battle mode (only one track is available from the start) Lastly, there are "flower" boxes hidden throughout each track. Finding them unlocks cheats that you can turn on and off under the options screen.

The PROS: There is so much content packed in this game, you get your money's worth instantly. First off, the graphics, music, sound effects, controls and game play are impressive for a racing game on the N64. Then, there is the satisfaction on unlocking the bonus content for you and your friends to enjoy later. This game shows how to give players an incentive to play through the game entirely and have something to show for it. Each track is huge and there are multiple surprises and shortcuts that each lap promises you a different experience each time. The different versions of Beetles are pretty damn cool and its worth unlocking all of them. The Beetle Battle mode is fun to play with your friends and is a game within itself (the tracks are huge so getting 3 more players is the best way to go.) This game will take you awhile to beat since it's quite challenging and that leads into...

The CONS:...right here. While BAR looks and sounds like an arcade racer, it uses real car physics so part of the challenge comes to getting used to how it feels and controls. The cars you start out with are slow and rigid while the ones you unlock later on control much better. Also, the A.I. cars start off slow and don't pose a challenge but as you play through each difficulty level, they go faster, bump into you and rarely make a mistake so don't be surprised if you have to try again to finish in 1st place. This game is for those who want to put in time to unlock all the goodies here so if you want to pick up and play right away, you won't have access to the entire game from the get go.

Beetle Adventure Racing is a great racer that while can be quite difficult at times, can be fun and is a good choice for those who like the San Francisco Rush and Cruis'n games. It's worth your money so those of you who like racing games and looking for a game to play with others, grab yourself a copy.