As a collector I absolutely love to pick up old retro games at the local Game X-Change. A few months ago I happened to come across a copy of Donkey Kong Land III for six dollars and made a point to snag it. I didn't get around to playing it for a while but when I did it really helped me out some unexpected ways.

Now, I'm sure you're wondering how playing a video game can quote unquote "help" you. A few years ago I picked up a copy of the original Donkey Kong Country for the Super Nintendo at the same store but when I played through it something felt a bit off. I just wasn't enjoying myself to the point I did when I played the game when I was younger. I wasn't sure if the problem was me or if it was the game... all I knew was I was going to have to play another game in the franchise (as a point of reference) to find out. Fast forward a few years when I got around to this and well, I had a blast. After completing Donkey Kong Land III I played a few more games like Donkey Kong Country 2 on the GameBoy Advance and the original Donkey Kong Land and those only solidified the weird fact that I don't like the first SNES game for some reason. Unfortunate (and bizarre) as that is I'm glad the whole series hasn't shared its fate.

Since I've finished this game I've played the other two Land games and while the original Land is good despite its problems (2 is oddly disappointing for some reason...) I feel this is the strongest of the GameBoy games and considering how little it costs to procure this is just an excellent game to add to anyone's collection. However, as good as Donkey Kong Land III is - and how rewarding the unlockable time trial mode is - the sad fact is many people have completely forgotten about the Land series. In a certain sense this isn't surprising given that ports of the original Super Nintendo games were made available on the GameBoy Advance but it's shame that these games are being passed up.

Regardless you can easily get about seven to eight hours of gameplay out of this one which is pretty impressive given today's second hand prices. If you're looking to introduce a younger gamer into gaming and want to do it with a less expensive system like the GameBoy Advance this is a great way to go.