This is a great classic game.  You begin as a new Pokemon trainer, and soon select your first Pokemon.  The choices are Charmander, a fire type;squirtle, a water type;or bulbasaur, a fire type.  Interestingly, three Pokemon you choose from are like rock/paper/scissors, charmander beats bulbasaur, squirtle beats charmander, and bulbasaur beats squirtle.  Soon, you rival chooses his Pokemon(annoyingly, its always the one that has the type advantage, like if you choose squirtle he will choose charmander.  You are then given the task of completing a complete guide of Pokemon by catching all of them.  In order to beat the game, you only need the first 150 Pokemon, however, there is also a legendary number 151 Mew.  You catch Pokemon by using one you already have to weaken it, then catching it with a Pokeball.  Once you catch a Pokemon, you may use it to fight others, but you can only have up to 6 Pokemon at a time.  Along the way, you will encounter other trainers you may battle.  There are regular trainers, which you battle only for money, fun, and experience.  However, there are also gym leaders, which are specialized trainers with stronger Pokemon than regular trainers in their area have.  There are 8 in all, and once you beat them, you may then battle the elite four, who are much tougher than gym leaders and you have to fight all of them in succession.  You also encounter your rival throughout the game.  And he becomes Pokemon League Champion, however, once you defeat him, you become Pokemon League Champion.  There are also troublemaking team rocket members that you can and sometimes have to battle as well.  Their boss is also the leader of gym 8.  I have found the gym leaders and team rocket members are actually exceedingly easy if you know what you're doing, however, the elite 4 is very tough, especially since you have to face them all toghether.  There are also legendary Pokemon, which are considered to be part of the 151 total, and they are very rewarding but challenging to catch.  Also, one cool thing is there is a lot of moves(although some are kind of stupid) and certain Pokemon have strengths over others.  For example, fire takes out grass easily.  However, you can beat the game just by having stronger Pokemon, however, this is actually harder than using strategy.  Because it takes a great length of time to level up, while a skilled player can quickly catch a Pokemon with a type advantage.  And to the guy who said he beat this game in a hour....if you think this game is easy, than you should quit playing videogames altoghether, because you obviously are such a great master of everything.  Also, IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO BEAT THE GAME IN A HOUR!  AT MINIMUM, YOU HAVE TO PLAY IT FOR AT LEAST LIKE 20 HOURS FOR YOUR POKEMON TO BE HIGH ENOUGH LEVEL TOO!  Oh, wait, you must have used a gameshark.  Wow, no wonder you are so good at videogames.  But if anyone tells you they beat the game in a hour, they either cheated, found a big glitch, or both.  Or else their exaggerating.  But the only way the game could really beat that easy is if you had a strategy guide.  "Oh this game is so easy, I only had to read 50 books on it to beat it on the first try."  GET REAL!  IF THIS ISN'T A CHALLENGE, NOTHING IS!  Overall, its a great game, but there are some annoying things.  First off, to get all 151, you must trade with freinds, as neither red nor blue has every Pokemon, but they do combined.  Most Pokemon are in both versions, but some are exclusive to either red or blue.  Also, as you level up your Pokemon, they evolve(which is really more accurately described as metamorphises), and some only evolve by trading them with the same Pokemon with another player.  Another thing is there is only one save slot. Finally, in the Japenese version, by getting the first 150, you get number 151,but in the US version you can only get them through Nintendo's promotions or by cheating.  Hmm, giving Americans a raw deal, aye Nintendo?  You know we buy into your promotions instead of demanding that you make stuff available in the games.  In Japan, gamers would be outraged, but you know you can take advantage of us Americans?  Okay, go ahead.  But despite the fact that it isn't as good as the Japenese version or a perfect game, Pokemon Red is still one of my favorites.