"Myst" is the one that started it all.  "Myst" is the game by which all other role-playing games are measured.  No one had any idea when the game first came out in 1993 that it would eventually become the best-selling computer game of all time.
Rand and Robyn Miller, the brothers who created the wildly successful game, hit upon a winning idea.  Place someone into an unknown world where the clues he or she uncovers reveals the story.  And one of the biggest perks of all - you can't die.
"Myst" starts off by dumping you on a dock overlooking a vast ocean.  You can hear water lapping along the dock, and a wind makes the hair on your neck stand up.  And from there it only gets more interesting - you discover books that can link you to other worlds like this one, more commonly called Ages; you encounter all sorts of devices that, even though they don't appear to do much, are all part of the underlying thread tying the game together; and just by wandering around you immerse yourself in the world that is "Myst."
Occasionally, I meet people who are baffled at the success of "Myst."  They don't understand how a game where you just walk around and solve stuff can be so appealing.  There is little or no character interaction, they say.  I've noticed that a lot of these same people are those who like those "shoot'em up and splatter their guts all over the wall" type of gamers.  The reason "Myst" has been so successful is because it so pure - you don't have to worry about dying, you use your head to get your way through things, and each new Age you encounter is just bursting with intriguing things to discover.  That and each world is beautiful.  Not as jaw-dropping as "Riven" and not nearly as mesmerizing as "Myst III: Exile", but "Myst" has a subtle yet majestic beauty that makes it stand apart from other games.
If you have never played a computer game before, give "Myst" a try.  You will be surprised at how addictive it can become.  Did I mention that there is no possible way in which you can be killed?  Seriously!  How many games today offer that?  There's a reason why it has been such a hit; millions and millions of people can't be wrong.