There are very few video games from over 20 years ago that still go strong in the second decade of the 21st century. Myst is one of them. I remember playing this game back in 1993 and getting my but whipped with the puzzles. I recently replayed it and found myself in awe of how well constructed it is. Of course, graphics have advanced since 1993, but Myst shows game developers how puzzles should really work.

Unlike too many games today, Myst brilliantly evokes a sense of wonder and mystery. When you start the game, you're just thrown into a new world with no explanation. You are left to explore and discover. There is a story with shocking twists, but the story depends upon your involvement and choices, not simply handed to you.

The puzzles require a lot of time and thought. If you don't like puzzles and thinking, don't play this game. If you like challenges, Myst will challenge you. The puzzles often require you to make connections between separate pieces of information or view your environment in a new way. Some are frustrating and I did need to look at a hint guide a few times (particularly for the Mechanical Age elevator) but they all do have a logic.

Unlike other reviewers, I found the one area Myst doesn't hold up well is in building an immersive environment. Myst as a world doesn't have a logic. There's a spaceship, a boat, a clock tower, etc., just sitting on the island. It seems more like a video game hub than an actual world. I think Myst makes up for its lack of internal logic by leaving so much mysterious and presenting you with such intricate puzzles that you want to explore the world.

Overall, Myst was a historic computer game back in 1993 and is still worth playing 20 years later. From the early 1990s, I personally preferred Presto Studios' Journeyman Project, which also had a compelling point-and-click adventure and featured pre-rendered 3D environments. However, until that game gets rereleased, Myst is easily the best point-and-click adventure readily out there.

Note: the game is also available on iPhone, iPad, Nintendo 3DS, so there's no excuse not to try it out.