I would say that Lunar is a worthy RPG and definitely still worth playing if you have an appreciation for the classics.  However, it may not be worth paying the exorbitant used prices (the cheapest I found my copy was $60, then one of the discs was all scratched up and nonfunctioning, and I had to buy new discs for $30!  Yikes!).  Anyway, let's see if Lunar withstands the test of time.

Graphics (score 8/10): Well, since this version of Lunar (the Playstation version) was enhanced from the original, it looks really good for an older RPG, especially when compared to the playstation ports of Final Fantasy V and VI.  However, the graphics are still undeniably dated.  On the bright side, anime cutscenes are interspersed throughout the game. There's also an anime portrait whenever they speak, which adds much needed detail to the characters (so you can see what they really look like).

Music (score 7/10): Music is decent, nothing that would make you buy the soundtrack or anything.  There are a couple vocal tracks in the game, which are also decent.  Thankfully, Luna's singing voice isn't too grating on the ears.  I still don't understand, though, why everyone in the game keeps referring to her amazing singing voice, when in my opinion, she is only average.  Well anyway, there is limited voice acting in the game during scenes and also a couple battle phrases.  The voice acting is pretty good; the only voice I'm glad we don't hear much of is Nall's, which I imagine would get really annoying (it's high-pitched and squeaky).  You don't get to hear much voice acting anyway, since it's really only present during cutscenes.

Characters (score 8/10): Characters are likeable and amusing.  They do have a decent amount of depth to their personalities, so you really come to be attached to them.  Because the story is so basic, the likeable characters are really what keep this game afloat.  Also, some of the NPCs are downright hilarious!

Story (score 7/10):  Lunar is certainly no Final Fantasy VII.  The story itself is pretty basic.  You start off as Alex, who sets off on a quest to become a Dragonmaster (person of status who helps keep things in order and peace).  Then the story falls into the old pattern of finding X number of things (in this case, 4 dragons) and saving the world from a power-hungry would-be ruler along the way.  This is sort of the formula for every RPG in existence, but at least other games add in unique and intriguing twists on this old formula to keep things interesting.  Lunar's storyline really has no extra twists or new concepts in it to keep things interesting (thus it relies on excellent characterization).  I really wish the game had explored certain concepts in more detail, such as the why the Vile Tribe rejected Althena, Ghaleon's motivations, and Althena's personality, motivations, and origin.  However, given the age of this game, the lack of story depth is forgivable.  After all, almost all games made during this time period were pretty shallow story-wise.

Battle System (score 8/10): Battles are a basic turn-based system.  The usual attack, defend, magic, item commands.  As an interesting twist, you can move around the battle screen, thus making position a part of strategy.  The only complaint I have with battles is that there is an "A.I." command, whereby you can have the battle automatically fought for you.  I didn't really like this because the option is listed first in the menu, which means you'll spend some time accidentally hitting it.  It would've been better if they'd put it at the bottom of the menu.  Well, this isn't really a big deal since the cursor in the game "remembers" where you last had it and always starts up there.  So, once you turn on the game and select "command", the next battle will have the cursor already on "command".  This was quite convenient.

Gameplay (score 7/10): This is a bit of a catch-all category for me.  One thing of note is that the menu system was a bit confusing, at least for me.  I really felt that it was needlessly complicated and I never quite got the hang going through it quickly.  It's rather annoying having every party member have their own "equip" menu when you could just have one big "equip" option, and then just select a character from there.  I also hated having to physically put equipment in the person's hand before I could equip it.  It would've been better to just let me select a person, and then have every available piece of equipment in inventory for them pop up in a list.  Shuffling items from Nall's inventory to each individual character's inventories is a pain, especially if their inventory is full, and you have to move items out first.  Well, anyway, also of note is the leveling system.  Bosses are always the same level as Alex is, but regular enemies all have their own preset levels.  This means that you must strike a delicate balance between under-leveling and over-leveling.  I really liked this feature since it kept you from having to level grind all the time.  Also, enemies appear onscreen--so there are no random battles, which is awesome.  Overall, the gameplay is very smooth and enjoyable, especially for an older game.

Overall (score 7/10): NOTE this score is not an average; it's my subjective overall score.  Overall, this was a decent, enjoyable game.  Even though the story isn't the best, I really enjoyed the characters and they kept me playing.  Is this game worth playing? Yes.  Is this game worth the eventual $90 I had to spend on it?  Definitely not.  I personally don't think this game is worth more than $40.  If you can find it for less than that, then go for it.  If not, then you might want to try the GBA remake, Lunar Legend (though I don't know how good it is, since I've never played it).  If you don't happen to ever play this game, then it's no real loss since there are plenty of contemporary RPG's available that are much better.