Ok.. I'll be honest here. I read couple reviews and sensing that this game is 'bit' over-rated. (I sense people who wrote reviews frowning) I did finish this game and trust me, I had lot of expectation for this game. I haven't played the Sega CD version of it and actually blamed one of the reviewers from EGM, who gave 8.5 when rest of them gave 9 or higher. I thought this game deserves at least 9, I mean, look at the animation, the title animation is one of the most well-represented animated beginning ever, and the music was just amazing.  I was constantly humming the tune because it was so, so, SO GOOD- couldn't help myself from humming it all the time. Not only that, Working Design did a fantastic/excellent job on putting in all the extra you are getting with this game, it's simply amazing- I'm left with no choice but to give credit for that.  However, after I finish the game, I realized that I came to conclusion too soon, when I did play only beginning portion of the game, mesmerized with beautifully animated movie scene.
I wasn't inspired or felt that heartache or anything like that..
  I mean, characters are adorable and the story is good enough to pull you in, however, it wasn't just strong enough-
So when I read several reviews saying this is the best RPG for PS or anything like that, I just couldn't agree with what they were saying, of course, everyone has right to their own opinion, but in my humble opinion, I just didn't feel it.  It seemed to me that I'm more attracted to the games with more stronger theme, like Xenogear, and Lunar falls into mild-themed game, which is, of course, enjoyable.
I didn't buy the sequel, Eternal Blue, which comes with more extra and whole box for the game looks great, however, I wasn't inspired enough to purchase Eternal Blue because it wasn't just there to hook me, wasn't just there...
Well, it's definitely your call.. so if the price is reasonable for you and plenty of time, then give it a try and see how it goes. It's nice to have this game if you are a collector, however, I wouldn't buy this game if you are picking this ONE RPG to enjoy in your busy life, because there are better RPGs out there for PSOne in my humble opinion.