Given the success of Myst, a sequel was inevitable. Riven is both a sequel in spirit and in its story. The game takes place just after Myst and takes the player to another age where you meet Atrus' father and wife, amongst others. As in Myst, the story is told through journal entries, puzzles, and a few cinematic scenes. Riven does develop the story more than Myst did, with more cinematic cutscenes and longer books. Overall, I think this is a great addition and the actor who plays Ghen (Atrus' father) is actually quite good.

Like Myst, Riven is a challenging puzzle game. Overall, the game isn't quite as challenging as Myst because the relationship between the puzzles and solutions aren't as attenuated. However, there are a few cases where I felt like I knew what information I needed, but didn't know where to find it. This is particularly problematic in a point-and-click game with limited movement. I was particularly frustrated with learning the Riven numbers - I knew I needed to in order to learn a code, but couldn't figure out where to get the translation! Also, there is one thing in the very last puzzle which is a real pain - something impossible to see that needs to be moved.

The graphics in Riven look beautiful, even 15 years later. The Riven environment is gorgeous and has some really startling landscape. However, the geography in Riven is supposedly 5 times larger than Myst's, but because most of the game occurs within a single Age is actually does feel a bit smaller. Moreover, I felt like there were more "corridors", or areas that had no function other than to serve as space between two other areas. Myst by contrast was extremely compact. I'm not sure which is better, but I'd guess that in terms of puzzle content the two games were about equal. I would have preferred a bit more environment and fewer corridors.

Ultimately, Riven is a worthy sequel to Myst and follows its predecessor closely. If you like Myst, you'll probably love Riven. If not, Riven probably doesn't offer anything new to change your mind. Recommended.