I had never played this game until this year; I wanted to see if this game lived up to its name.

My previous experience with this series includes X, XI, and a touch of XIII; I have to say that while I enjoy parts of X, on the whole I hate these games.  Most of this hatred stems from having more hours of cut scenes than hours of actual gameplay.  I also like RPG's to have a roaming element; I like being able to explore and I like finding sidequests and items.  I did not get that with these titles.  I expected FFVII to be the same and just riding its reputation.

Bad news first.  This is a PlayStation 1 game, and oh my does it look it.  This is an ugly game.  Battles aren't bad and cut scenes could be worse, but walking around is bad.  When exploring an area, it's often difficult to identify exits, ramps and ladders, and various "switches."  There's a command that highlights ladders and exits to other areas, but ramps and switches are still hidden.  This option has saved me some headaches, but it's aesthetically displeasing.  RPG's hadn't started the "journal" thing yet, so skipping dialogue (even accidentally) or coming back to game after a busy week can lead to some confusion.  The combat system because combat isn't intuitive and that there are a few too many status effects, some of which can easily break the game with a bit of bad luck.

Good news.  The characters are varied and this together with the materia system allows for a wonderful amount of customization and different play styles.  The characters themselves, while definitely cliche, have decent back-stories and fairly strong characterization.  I've heard a lot of complaints about character angst in this game, but I think those complaints are exaggerations and what angst is there matches the story and characters well.  The plot itself is solid and has plenty of twists.  The combat system works.  I say it's complicated and unintuitive, but it functions well and allows experimentation with different tactics.  Most importantly, there isn't a single algorithm for success; there are a variety of viable strategies for combat.  Most sidequests are fun, and while you don't need the sidequest rewards to beat the game, those prizes are often quite powerful but not overpowered.  This is nice as said sidequests neither feel like fluff/padding nor only masquerading as optional.  The net result is that the game rewards exploration and experimentation.  An additional nice touch is that grinding is, on the whole, unnecessary.  The cut scenes are well done, always convey something relevant, and never overstay their welcome.

Summary:  The graphics are bad enough to be a turn-off, but this is the only thing that doesn't hold up well.  It's a long, fun game with plenty of replay value.  The combat is complex, but it works well and that complexity allows the player to be creative and to try some very interesting things.  This game certainly has its problems, but its quality is undeniable and it's rapidly becoming my favorite game.