I got this game and I thought it was going to be just an okay game. Did I ever find out how wrong I was! The game is absolutely addictive! You can play as the Global Defense Initiative (GDI)the good guys or the bad guys, who are simply called the NOD. There are 15 GDI missions and 13 NOD missions. There are also two exclusive N64 only missions for each side. The grapihics are okay, but not anything real fancy. If you want to run the game in High Resolution mode make sure you have an expansion pack; this also makes the graphics better. Just remember to go to the opions menu and select High Resolution everytime you play because if you don't the game will run on Medium Resolution. When you use and airstrick for the GDI or use a lot of flamthrowers, flamtankes, or a Nuclear Missile for the NOD, the game play will so slow down to a crawl until the fire stopsm but after the napalm is it out the game goes back to its normal speed. When a soldier dies he spills over and a little pile of blood comes out and then it disappears along with the body. If you run over enemy troops with tank or something, you get a squishy sound. When a soldier dies you may hear a scream. These are the only violent grapcis in the game. The music is great at times, but some of the tracks are boring. This is the best strategy game for the N64! A little hint to help is that the NOD are great at whiping out infantry while the GDI are better equipped to handle tanks and defensive positions. When you are capable to produce tanks and vehicles build vehicles instead of infratry because a NOD flame tank or a NOD flamethrower can wipe out a lot of infantry with no problem at all. If you play as the NOD then build turrets and light tanks to take out the GDI forces. You can use a group of light tanks to run over infantry. Also another hint is that if you play as NOD build some recon motorcycles in the later missions when GDI uses ORCAs, they are kind of like helicopters, to harrass you and if the recon units are in guard mode they will attack the flying pests. This is definitely a must have since new N64 games are no longer coming out. Some of the later missions can take up to three to four hours to complete. Have fun!