Let me just break this game down step by step.

Storyline:

Very good and very easy to follow. I like how it separates between Shinra and Sephiroth before the first disk is even half way over. Very addicting and very fun to follow, and it still always gets me going without ever getting old.

Graphics:

10 years ago these graphics were considered "best of all time".

10 years later, we ask ourselves 'What the heck is this crap?'

One thing that never gets old is the fact that these poorly drawn 3D characters are unequally proportioned. Huge hands, twig arms? No mouths or noses, and yet they have huge hair? In 2007 all I can think of is to thank whoever came up with REAL 3D graphics.

Characters:

Each has their own special personality that I love. Barrett being my favorite. His attitude and swearing habits are possibly the funniest thing in the game. I usually keep him in my party just for that reason. Cloud is  stubborn, but not as funny. Tifa's got that hair thing going(like I just mentioned). Aeris is kind of boring and dies too early in the game to get to know her a lot more than you do. Red XII.....he's a dog? Cid, another character who can't control his mouth. Yuffie....some ninja girl that really serves no more meaning than a side quest. Vincent, amazing character who can morph into creatures. And Cait Sith....wait a minute, he's a toy? O.O;;;

Bosses:

Each have their own difficulty which I like.

Some require you to actually have trained or else face a brutal whipping. Final 3 bosses each have their own "twang" to them. Especially Sephiroth who is fun to go up against time and time again. I mean c'mon, who doesn't like a cool character with a wing for an arm? Music kind of gets to you though and his 5 minute Super Nova attack gets really frustrating when he does it about 10 times.

I kind of wish there were more than 2 All-American Creature bosses though

Magic:

The whole materia thing is fun, except for the fact that it ruins your stats.

Limit Breaks:

Easy to use, hard to obtain.

Playability:

Very-High

I've replayed this game time after time again without getting bored. I try new strategies and new characters each time and try to level up differently than I did before.