I can't believe how many gamers are hailing this game as the best final fantasy ever... i mean i know everyone has a different opinion and all but i mean come on, hasn't any of you played final fantasy 6? that game pretty much did everything this game did, only so much better. where do i begin?

characters: cloud-an emo whiny brat that annoyed me to know end. i wish there was a shut up spell in this game to make him stop crying. barret-how many black stereotypes can we fit into a single character? lame.

Tife-hey she has a killer body, not much personality but hey sex sells right?. Yuffie-what was here purpose again?. -aeris-hey someone with potential, too bad she died before we could start to care. cait sith- although i shouldn't have to explain why this character is lame, ill do it anyways....hes a cat, that rides on a stuffed animal robot....pause for laughter....a CAT that rides on a robotic stuffed animal!!!!!! then there is Vincent: basically there for five minutes of an already convoluted story line that is other than that piece of the story he is in is an intirely optional character, and can be put in the OF NO REAL IMPORTANCE folder. oh and i almost forgot Cid: yup his character was so awesome that i almost for got to mention him. and then finaly Red 13. another character that had potential, but when your surrounded by a bunch of numbskulls, in a convoluted story line, you stop caring about one character that has potential.

then there is the main bad guy sepheroth... many people say he is the best bad guy EVER!!!! "Sepheroth is so BAD TO THE BONE man he rulz!!!!" he was equally as much of a whiny emo brat like cloud (he wanted to destroy the world cause he missed mommy and a whole lot of other silly plot twists to make the storyline seem more advanced and mature). and i say this whoile heartedly....if you get defeated by a group of 1)an emo whiner 2) a woman who has no real point in life other than to be said emo's love object (and to sell units do to sex appeal), and 3) a CAT riding a robotic stuffed animal you are A) not BAD TO THE BONE and B) disqualified from the greatest villain of all time list. sorry.

story line:convoluted. a lot of unnessisary plot twists, although it was servicable and interesting at points. it would have helped to add characters with...character into the mix. also there was several completely unncessary scenes in it where i thought totally didn't add a single thing to the game (the cloud in the bath tub with the dude or the cross dressing game?) plus the ending reeked of don't know what to do wiht the story line so lets just say this happens.

gameplay: once again servicable but nothing revolutionary or even evolutionary. as a matter of fact, i think this game takes a step backwords instead of forwards. 5 had the job system. 2 had the unique leveling system. 6 had not only unique skills per character, but had awesome gameplay sequences such as the opera house, the stategic scens where you control 3 parties to more and block advancing troops, etc etc. what did 7 do? had cool summon animations that got old after the second view and could not be skipped....pass!!!!

graphics. they were horrible. yes even for that time. save for the stunning FMV sequences and the cool summon scenes (that got old way too quick) there was nothing pretty about this game. dull grey and bland environments abound. characters that made Lego characters look realistic, and just an overall boring and grimmy disgusting lifelesslook to the whole project.

sigh...where do you find best FF ever from this game? Its not even close to the top 3. was it fun? yes. did it make RPG's popular in the states? Yes (although i prefer some of the other games that came out on the PS at the time, such as wild arms, suikodin, and revelations persona, more entertaining). but the best? not even close. although i have to say it is better than 8.