All "cloud's giant sword" jokes aside, this game has one of the most loyal fanbase in gaming.
Is it worthy of all the fanfare?

Well, i don't thing it's worthy of rabid fanboyism and a 200 dollor price range, but it is a damn good game.

Dispensing with my usual "the good, the bad, and the meh." format. let's do a rundown by detail.

Graphics:
It is a real mixed bag.
The character models out of battle look ridiculous out of battle and pretty nice in battle.
the backgrounds range to beautifully picturesque to "let's see how much brown we can get away with." The cutscenes are pretty epic.

*SPOILER ALERT*

The high points to me were the opening, the shinra building getting blown up and part of midgar callapsing onto a section of the slums.

*okay you can look now*

The gameplay:
No real suprises really, aside from it including an active time battle system.

Minigames:
They are actually pretty neat and they give you lots of incentive to do them.
(maybe a little too much incentive actually, seeing how one of them is the only place to get Omnislash.) My favorite being the chocobo farming and racing.

The story:
Well, pretty good, but i think FF VI and IV did it better tbh.

Most of the game is traveling around the world chasing the big bad while avoiding or fighting the other big bad (shrinra) and unraveling the past.
oh, and there's this really weird scene in wall-market...

The music:
Here's where the game REALLY shines, giving us some of the most memorable tunes in video games.
Just listen to One winged angel, Now THAT is what death sounds like!
(albeit kinda a Jaw's theme rip-off)
Cosmo Canyon's theme is amazing.
The shinra theme stands out to me to.

Music is subjective though so you may hate it.

The characters:
Cloud: For most of the game, he's a pretentious douchebag, but he lightens up a bit near the end.

Barret: He is Mr T. (I guess someone at square really liked the A-team.)

Tifa: Sweet, good-natured girl who isn't afraid to fist fight godzilla. (kinda awesome.)
oh, and she has a thing for cloud, for some reason. Speaking of that...

Aerith: The obligatory love interest.

Red XIII: He's a lion that talks. He's the most level headed.

Cid: A washed up, foul mouth old pilot/technician  (my favorite.)

Vincent: He's a shapeshifting vampire and he's kinda sad about it.
His past happens to be kinda messed up...he's even sadder about that.

Yuffie: Was the lolita ninja a trope before this girl?

Cait Sith: I really don't remember many details about this thing beside that he's a robot controlled by Reeve , a shinra employee.

I'd go over the antogonist but i don't want this review/retrospectic go be much longer.

So, if these character's sound cool to you then great!

If you like this game then check out, Legend of Dragoon, by the way.

If you are a collector with a lot of money to blow then get this.