Final Fantasy 7, is one of those games that deals with a variety of aspects, instead of just focusing on one. It may seem to have just your simple everyday theme, of an average game. Once you get to actually playing the game, and beating it, you will understand what the whole concept of this game is about. It is more than just a battle of good and evil... it deals with what certain characters are going through at a time of crisis...
Story
  The story in FF7 was very well done; fit very nicely with the characters and surroundings. At first playing FF7, I didn't really think much of the story... until they started to developing the characters, and other minor aspects in to place. Once the game progressed, I could tell that I was starting to become entwined with this game; not only physically, but emotionally as well. One thing on the story I feel that they could have portrayed better, would have been how it all started... they never really went into much depth of how it all started.
10/10
Appearance
  At first glance at FF7, it doesn't really look like much. Basically looks like your "average" game, where you fight the bad guy, save the girl, and so on. The appearance of the game, also relies on the story. You have to understand what is going on, to get the whole meaning out of a certain scene. FF7, is one of those games that illustrates this property very well. At the time of the games release, which you can see here, it had some of the best graphics for any PSX game.
9/10
Characters
  The characters of FF7 were portrayed beautifully. Another reason why FF7 had a unique character design, is because the characters had been introduced with some background information; instead of the traditional way, were they just introduce a character and that's that. The way that characters developed, in the game, also had its strong points to back up many of the games likings. The way that I first saw the game, character wise, was that each really didn't care about each other. Once the story, and overall plot thickened, the characters attitudes towards each other became more appealing.
9/10
Music
  The music in the game was also another high end of the game. In my opinion, the music of the game, is what gave it that certain vibe, to make it a higher end game. I can't really say much about the music, though it was excellent. Overall Nobuo Uematsu did a very good at composing and producing the music of FF7.
9/10
Overall
  Final Fantasy 7, what more can I say... This is one excellent RPG that I would recommend to anyone who is remotely interested in gaming. The overall atmosphere that Final Fantasy 7 brings with it, is incredible. The overall mixture of what it represents, varies from person to person. Some people call this "The greatest game of all time." and I fully agree with this statement... Gaming just doesn't get any better than this.
9.5/10...