I have just recently finished playing FFVII for the first time.  Before playing it, I read a lot of comments from people claiming that this game is the best ever.  While I do believe it to be good, I can't fully agree.  I enjoyed FFVIII more (despite the fact that that opinion will likely discredit anything else I say in the eyes of all the rampant FF8 haters out there), I must admit.  But vastly, this was a great game.

The graphics weren't wonderful, but what can you expect from the earliest of the 3D Square games?  I had played 8 and 9 before this, so the graphics were admittedly a bit of a letdown, but the story was more than enough to make up for it.  I just found it quite funny how everyone's hands looked like large boxes.  ^_^

The music was good, and the character development was about as good as you can expect in a video game with more than four main characters.  Even in the best of games, some characters are left undeveloped, and it is no difference here.  Cloud, Tifa, and Barret get a good deal of character development, though other main characters are left less known.

There were a great deal of side quests and minigames, which I enjoyed immensely.  Snowboarding was my personal favorite.  :-)  You can spend hours completeing the sidequests alone, and most people end up detouring from the plot for vast amounts of time at the Gold Saucer.

The plot tended to be confusing at times, at least for the first time through.  However, it was intriguing, and Sephrioth is a refreshingly evil bad guy.  The final battle against him was pathetically easy (I killed him twice in a row without dying once at level 60 or so), but up until the point you actually fight him in his final form, he's a truely malevolent villain.

I would recommend this game for any Final Fantasy fan, or any fan of RPGs in general.  It's well worth the money and time.  Just because I said I didn't believe the theory that this is the greatest game ever invented does not in any way mean that I dislike it.  It's and excellent and entertaining game, and by no means should be passed up.