As my first forray into the world of survival horror, I was very curious to see how this game would hold up in this age of Playstation 2s and Halo.  I am pleased to say that this is a pretty fun game that has its strenghts and weaknesses.
You play as a secret agent named Regina.  Your mission is to infiltrate Ibis island to find a mysterious scientest named Dr. Kirk.  Upon landing on the island, it quickly becomes obvious that there is something very wrong with the island.  Then it becomes a quest to survive the evil reptillian menace.
Many, many people have complained about how dino crisis should be called puzzle crisis.  It is true that there is an unusual amount of puzzles in the game that you must solve to advance.  They range from simple (switch the batteries) to the moderatly difficult (move the crates with a crane) to the quite difficult (Rotate electronic chips to divert power).  There are also a mamoth amount of keys that you must get (Around 50).  There are also DDK locks that you have to dechiper to unlock doors (Hence the title of this review).  Most of these puzzles can be solved moderatly easily, if you really think about it.  Overall, I'd say that the game is a 50/50 mix of puzzles and dinosaur action.
As for the fighting part of the game, you get a total of three weapons, (Shotgun, handgun, and grenade gun) to exterminate raptors, pteradons, etc.  Some people might be turned off at the idea of only 3 weapons, but I don't find it a problem.  Combat is handled in the RE control scheme, which works pretty well.  As with a lot of survival horror games, you have to be carefull as to how you make your way through with ammo, which is not unlimited (Except in 1 case).  Fighting the dinosaurs can be difficult, but mastered.  Overall, I'd give the combat a B
There are some things to really like about Dino Crisis.  At certian points during the game, you have to make decisions aka "Choose your own adventure" style (Do you investigate the underground area, or go save a comrade?).  This adds a nice touch of replay value.  The graphics are pretty good (By PS1 standards).  The best part of the game however, is the T-rex.  The T-rex provides the most exciting elements in the game, and each encounter is a adrenaline charged rush.  Likewise, the 4 possible different endings are all very exciting and cool to play through, although there are a few things I am curious about.  For example, (Spoiler!!!) how can a T-rex swim 30 miles an hour in water?  That dosent make much sense. (End Spoiler)
The weak points of the game are mostly the puzzles.  There are a bit too many of them, and not enough dino battles.  Also, the devlopers throw puzzles at you when you least suspect it, and when you don't want them.  While racing to a heliport for example, a big race against time with tense dramatic music, the game tosses a box pushing puzzle that you have to solve to advance.  Another time, you have to solve 2 big puzzles in the span of 10 minnutes, where you have to power an elevator, then move cranes when they are only 3 minnutes apart.  Also, the unlockable mini-game you earn if you beat the game in under 5 hours, is dissapointing (At least to me).  The element of strategy is unwelcome, I just want to blast dinosaurs, and not worry about ammo, and Why isint the T-rex included?
overall, I think that Dino Crisis is a fun game, and a good start to the world of Survival horror.  I recomend picking it up if you find it for uner $$$ .
The good:
good graphics
good dino action
good story
Choose your own adventure style branches
The T-rex
4 cool endings
The not so good:
a bit too many puzzles
some really difficult puzzles
not enough dino action
mediocre mini game (See above)