I loved this game. I like the fact of killing smart and fast dinos alot more than killing stupid,retarded,slow and mindless zombies. It makes the game a little more challenging and this game has so many surprises going from raptors poping out from a corner to rip your face off all the way to a gient T-Rex busting through a window to bite you in half. I must say that this game is very gory but in a way still cannot compare to the goryness of RE games. I bet though that your wondering why I called this one of the best survival-horrors when I have only givin it 4 stars instead of a perfect 5. Well,the game seems to have to much puzzle solving and not enough killing dinos. Like there is about a dino in every hall and in a few rooms but after you kill them all your stuck with about 50 puzzles to open a new area and then you finally get the opportunity to kill a few more dinos and then the same proccess over and over. 50 puzzles,10 dinos,50 puzzles,10 dinos. But hey,look on the bright side. The graphics are very great,along with the sound and awesome FMV's and the game also has its great and fun moments like when the T-Rex comes out. In this game the T-Rex plays a simmilar role such as the Nemises does in RE3 because they are both constant enemys that keep showing up to ruin your day and they seem invincable. This annoys some because of the same boss showing up over and over but I think its great!!Plus if you have played RE3 and got annoyed by the Nemises showing up over and over,you may like this a little better because in here the T-Rex does not show up as near asmany times as the Nemises does. Aside from the T-Rex and the Raptors there are 3 other deadly dinos. One is the small and very very annoying Compys,who show up and theres about 20 of them you gota kill which wastes a great deal of your ammo. Anouther is the flying bird dinos(I don't know how to spell there names)and last but not the least,these very very strong and very big(bigger than a raptor anyways but way smaller than the T-Rex)wierd looking things that I do not have a clue to what there names are. Oh,now I would like to get to the ammo. Ammo is very very hard to find in this game,and there is not even that much to find...But I suggest to you to get and infit ammo cheat because you'll need it for this game. This games AI(artificial intellagence)is very good. The dinos are smart and if you are bleeding they can smell it all the way from a different hall and start stalking you. So over all this is a great horror-survival that has (somwhat little)but good action none the less. Buy it,you'll love it(exept if your not good at solving puzzles).
  bye now.