This game isn't historically important(in the history of videogames), it's derivitive, and flawed, but I still had a lot of fun playing it. It's like a good b-movie. I tend not to like the graphics of playstation games, I preferred the snes back in the day, but here they work. The graphics lean towards realism but have a hint of anime influence, and I think they did a really great job on the dinosaur models, and most of the animations are pretty expressive, the limping of Regina when she's injured for example. The grainyness of the graphics enhance the b-movie feel. The voice acting isn't great but each character has a distinct personality. I also enjoyed the item mixing system, this allows you to customize the difficulty of the game, you can choose to use weak items or level+ items. There is also a decent amount of strategy in the game depending on the kind of weapon you use: raptors will be unfazed, stunned, or knocked down depending on the strength of the weapon; and there are also laser shields in some areas you can use to knock down raptors in order to run from them.
Flaws: the first and most serious flaw in the game is that the areas on the map aren't labeled, this is idiotic, it means that when you find clues with room specific information then, unless you have a great memory, you won't know where to look. Another problem is that sometimes important objects in the environment will blend in with the background and look unimportant, there is a key slot that would have taken me hours to find if I didn't get annoyed and look at a game walkthough. Sometimes the camera angles can hide important objects too. There is also a problem with damage detection and hit point arithmetic: a raptor won't take damage during some parts of it's animation, and if you get in some shot gun blasts then switch to the hand gun sometimes it won't count the damage done with the shotgun, both of these issues waste bullets. You can't group items how you want, sometimes you'll want to upgrade just one item but are forced to waste two others because of auto grouping. The select sound effect gets annoying considering how often you have to go to your inventory. The save system is slow and annoying. The pace of the game gets stalled from puzzles sometimes, you'll be running for your life but then have to stop and do a puzzle, and I never figured out the rules of the crane puzzle it just felt like trial and error.