Dreamcast was a system I obtained In 2000 as a Christmas gift. I wanted a Ps2 and acted like any slightly spoiled child would when I opened it. Ten years later I still have one and enjoyed it very much. In no way am I saying that Ps2 didn't blow this console out of the water however ten years later I still play it. My first dreamcast I did absolutely no up keep to it but sadly a hazed friend of mine belly uped my first off of a counter by snagging the controller I lazily left out. Luckily I was able to replace it new for 75$.Over that ten years everything worked great on my first except for some reason Shenmue did not like to be read. I believe that meant the eye was going out or my dreamcast just did not like that particular disk(s).Some games on a disk sometimes didn't work on other dreamcasts. If that happens you need to repurchase the same game and usually the other disk would work. For some reasons some disks wouldn't work on some dreamcasts. This was/is uncommon but it happens.

My new one runs like new. Every game boots right up. The design IMO is attractive but dirties to easily. Fan power seems a little weak, but vacuuming the vents every few weeks or so really helps mine -- do at own risk. Its a little brick with a mediocre hardware system. Its easily just as loud as an xbox 360 when disks are read. Has a cd player option that is attractive when used alright sound put out. The system utilizes its 4 controller slots a lot of the time to the max. This is a fun party game system. Roommates really helped with The use of this system. Games such as: DOA,Wetrix,Le mans,Crazy taxi 1(2),Power stone 1(2),soul caliber,and many others were fun games to play with four people sometimes two right next to you.
  Other multiplayers still had home multi player but also went online. Games Like bomberman online,PsO,chu chu rocket were a hit online for a short period. Understand that this is the first system to Fully push online play -- ok people say saturn did and in fact yes their right but if anyone had played it they would probably agree with me that it was a joke. If you've never played online for dreamcast lets say Compared to Ps3, dreamcast would make you laugh. If you are younger and started next gen you may not understand why I even put up with it. Understand even when I played PsO online As slow as dial up was that I put up with it because this was a first. This was like Black ops of 2000. Online play is no longer supported through Sega on dreamcast. I believe if you are smart enough some people still play games like quake 3 online with their dreamcast,somehow.
  The Next thing that is neat about the dreamcast is their games that were individually selected for that system. Games such as D2,Project Justice,Samba de Amigo(WITH MIRACHAS),And Seaman(With Mic), give you huge bragging rights. Samba di Amigo,W/ Mirachas easily could fetch 150$.Some of these games are hard to find cheap or even at all. With the Accessories it gets even more expensive.
  Though the listed genres I put were Strong -- a lot side scrollers and 2d fighters--Rpg is where it really took a hit. Yes Skies of Arcadia was perfection,Shenmue rocked,and PsO was decent but thats about it...Sad.
  Fps were scarce too. Soldier of fortune is the only one I'd really recommend now that quake 3 isn't online.
  I love my dreamcast and play it regularly however A lot of the reason I enjoy it so much is because during my peak of gaming this is the system I had. If you missed the dreamcast growing up think twice and try it before you buy. Some of the happiest times were playing games like Nfl 2k1 when they came out or if a childhood friend came to visit. If you jump from next gen into dreamcast without experiencing it as when it was the NEW thing, your content with the console may not be as much as some reviewers will say. You kind of had to experience it IMO to fully enjoy it.