Sony's latest console certainly has the best selection of games, chief among them, Pro Evolution Soccer and The Getaway. It is, however, a tad too expensive, considering its specs.
The DC has an interesting game library. Neither the best (PS2), nor the worst.
What it does offer is awesome quality for a low price tag. The PS2 is capable of displaying 6 million polygons, the same as the DC. The PS2 has 4MB of VRAM, while the Dreamcast has 8MB of VRAM.
But the most astounding thing is that, to this day, the DC thorougly dominates two key gaming genres - racing and fighting.
Metropolis Street Racing has, overall, better graphics than GT3, and handles really well. Arcade racers abound, such as the great Tokyo Xtreme Racer series. To top it off, the DC boasts the awesome F355, possibly the most realistic car sim ever.
The DC also has what has been recognized as the best fighting game of all time - the wonderfully deep Soul Calibur. Add to this countless 2D fighting games, and other fare such as Dead or Alive 2 and Virtua Fighter 3tb, and you have happy fighting game fans.
Other areas that are very well covered by the DC are sports, with the famed Sega Sports series, and "offbeat" games, such as Rez, Space Channel 5 and the 3D version of Q*Bert. There are also a number of kids games, probably more so than on the PS2.
The only bad thing about the DC are a few 2nd gen games such as Test Drive 6 and Rainbow Six which hold the system back somewhat. And, needless to be said, it cannot playback your Citizen Kane DVD.
Although I'd take the PS2's controller over the DC's, the Dreamcast's joypad is certainly better than the X-Box's or that of the N64.
Another plus is you will find every one of the games for less than half their original price, given that the DC has been discontinued.
If you really want a PS2, XBox or GC, I suggest waiting until they drop their price which they most likely will. I do not think those consoles are worth that much.
In short, the Dreamcast's price to quality ratio cannot be beaten.