There's no greater case for questioning "why" and "what if" than the Dreamcast. Everything you can say about this system has been said 100x over. Underrated, overlooked, before it's time, revolutionary. The list goes on and on. It all adds up to fun anyway.

I'm one of those that was completely sold on the Dreamcast. I'd never been more excited about a console and never have since. This was the console that finally would give us arcade quality games in our homes. I remember when I first saw 'Ready to Rumble' up and running. I just couldn't believe how good it looked and how fun it was to play. After looking at jagged and pixelated PS1 games for so long, it was a sight for sore eyes, literally. That game alone sold me on the system.

I was crushed when I heard that Sega was pulling the plug and abandoning the Dreamcast. The best console with the best games was on the way out and it didn't seem right. It didn't make sense. It was immensely popular, had one of the best launches in console history and it's sports games were flourishing even without EA's support. It still stings the memory like your favorite team losing the championship.

But we still have our memories and even better, many of us still have our Dreamcasts. A true testament to a console and games of the past is how well they hold up today. Many times, your memory serves you better than reality. I've experienced that many times with old games I used to like. But many of these are still alot of fun. Maybe not as much as they were at first but they can still provide a good time.

Sega was in it's prime when they made games for the Dreamcast. Sonic, Crazy Taxi, House of the Dead 2, Sega Bass and Marine Fishing, Daytona USA, and Virtua Tennis are still among the best and most playable today. Other honorable mentions go to Soul Calibur, Street Fighter Alpha 3, Power Stone 2, Marvel vs Capcom 2, Jet Grind Radio, 18 Wheeler, and Silent Scope. Unfortunately, the dreamcast will never come back and Sega may never again be the giant that they once were, but you can still find  the console, the games, VMU's, fishing controller's, and light gun's to experience some of the best that gaming has to offer. Get it while the gettin's good.