Game consoles are expensive these days.  I'm not getting an XBox because it's only available in bundles at $500.  GameCube is nice, but there arn't very many good games out for it.  I have a PlayStation2 and Game Boy Advance, and recently bought a Dreamcast.  Why do I always leave the things I really want to buy for last?
I have so many friends that think a system with fun titles can actually "die."  "You still play that?  They stopped making them and don't make games for it anymore!  It's dead, it's old! It came out in 1999!" Uh, that really wasn't that long ago.  I still want an Atari 2600, but I got a Pocket PC and a few more games at the top of my list!
The Dreamcast is possibly the best console I've had the pleasure of wasting my eye-sight on.  It's the first system to launch with a successful online plan (*** for Genesis, it tried yet nobody I know knows they really DID try).  That, and it has some of the best games available for it: Soul Reaver, MDK2, Jet Grind Radio, Crazy Taxi, many more to name.  In addition, it has the most confortable controller I've ever used (good for big or small hands).  And now that Sega is out of the hardware industry and trying to sell-out their whole Dreamcast inventory, the price for the Dreamcast has now dropped to $50.  It goes neck-to-neck with more recent consoles and it's dirt-cheap.
I honestly don't see any reason what-so-ever why you shouldn't buy Sega's final legacy.  For any holiday, if you have a nephew, son, friend, or whoever that wants to play games for at least 20 hours a week and doesn't have one yet, at $50 this is more than a real-steal.  Most of the games now are cheap (around the $10 range) and the system costs only 5 times that price.
In short, buy the Dreamcast.  Sega only stopped making them because of financial problems despite the Dreamcast's success.  A lot of good games to play on it, and gives the options of internet play or surfing the web, or even hooking the thing up to your monitor for crisper graphics.  Outstanding.  I'd give it a 5, but only if it had a built-in toaster.