I never actually played the original Sonic Adventure until I was in my mid-late teens (this game came out when I was 4 or 5). I grew up on SADX on the gamecube. The game is almost exactly the same, but the different, more vivid textures make it seem like a more realistic environment while also giving it a sense of older fashion-sense days.

I'll skip the gameplay, since it's a very basic Sonic gameplay most people in the mid-Sonic times are familiar with. I'll definitely say it's a bit more slippery and bouncy, though, but that was probably to show off the major advantage the DreamCast had over the original PlayStation or the N64.

The chao garden in this game is easily the most far removed from the other 3 versions (in SA2, SA2B, and SADX). The others have cute, snuggly, happy chao whose lives are only miserable if your torture them. You know what you're doing with your chao and accidents are rare. Not the case in this game. Every chao is born as an adult, and will very quickly kill itself if you don't do something soon. Their movements, like most of the game, are very bouncy. I dare say this is the bounciest thing in any major-release game I've ever seen, actually. It's almost a high-speed environment with a visible difficulty level.

If you're looking for a sentimental chao garden, this better be your last buy. If you're only after something nostalgic or want to collect for SEGA fandom's sake, this is one you absolutely can't leave out.

I'd also like to mention that when this game was released, I didn't know about it until about 5 years later. At the time, I was into Sonic and Pokemon (when Kanto was the only region!), for the most part, and I thought the new art style was as cool as anything could ever be. I didn't recognize Knuckles, though, because I'd only ever seen AoStH and a few Sonic products in stores (such as spaghetti-os). I literally thought Knuckles was an enhanced-awesomeness version of Tails, since he was the only character on the can with Sonic. I completely forgot about that feeling until this showed up in the mail after I ordered it. The box art is just so much more detailed than any other Sonic game's that I can think of (regarding resolution, at least).

If you're just breezing through and want a Sonic game with good music or gameplay, this won't be close to the bottom of your list, but not the top, either. This is a casual buy if you're not collecting or shooting for nostalgia.