When it came out, this game was HUGELY anticipated. After all, the Sonic the Hedgehog series is one of the most popular in videogame history. Was it worth the wait? Was it worth the hype? Is it worth picking up even now?
The transition from 2D to 3D has been much discussed in the past, and you can see why. What works great in 2D doesn't always translate so well into the 3D world. And when a series makes this sometimes awkward transition there are usually a few hiccups.
Sonic Adventure attempts to use level design that gives you the speed of the original games, while also featuring puzzle solving and rpg/adventure elements (talk to people, play mini-games, open doors, ect.). By featuring several different characters for you to play as, the game allows you to play a balanced game (sonic), blast through stages with nothing slowing you down (tails), run away like a chicken (amy), shoot everythign in sight (the robot), go on a treasure hunt (knuckles), or spend all your time fishing(?) (big the cat). Each of these elements is entertaining in its own right, but where the game really shines is the action scenes as sonic and tails. The adventure portion of this game suffers from the same flaw as many rpgs (namely, you can't find the stupid key to open the door). So the first time through you may hit a few snags. And the some of the more adventure/platformer elements can get VERY frustrating (I hate the platforming section of the snow level and the skydeck level in particular). And of course, the collision detection, polygon clipping, and camera problems are pretty darn buggy.
Still, you've got to love this game. The graphics are great, some of the levels (the first level, windy valley, and speed highway especially) are just plain awesome. Everyone should at the very least play this game, and true videogames fans should own it. It has flaws that can't be ignored, but there are enough moments of greatness (how about the part in the temple where you see the stone carving of chaos destroying the world?!) to more than make up for it. Definitely check it out.