The Sega Dreamcast controller is still one of the best designed and assembled game pads that I ever used. In highsight, while awkward and uncomfortable now compared to more recent designs, it was perfectly suited to the Dreamcast's 3D games while still being simple enough for people to easily grasp. It's also generally comfortable to handle for hours, making it a perfect fit for weekend long gaming marathons and is very responsive for standard gaming fare on the Dreamcast. The colorful main buttons are situated on the right side, directly opposite of the analog thumb stick and the D-pad, with the triangle 'Start' button smack dab in the middle, near the bottom. There are also single left and right index finger triggers on the underside of the controller. The overall layout make the controller intuitive and easy to learn, allowing you focus on playing the game. It also features two expansion slots to accommodate a couple of accessories like multiple `Visual Memory Units', and a single `Rumble Pack' or even a microphone, depending on how it's configured. To me, the only strange thing about the overall design of the controller is that the power cord is connected at the bottom, which is a little unorthodox. Luckily it can conveniently be secured in the tradtional forward position on the underside of the unit to accommodate gamers with old school preferences. Unfortunately, like other people have mentioned, the Sega Dreamcast controller it isn't ideal for playing fighting games. The shoulder triggers are simply placed a little to far back and feel a little bit awkward to use effectively, not without throwing a minor hitch in your mechanics in the beginning. Pulling off some of the more complicated moves in Street Fighter consistantly is next to impossible for me. So, the Dreamcast's pad is merely adequate in this particular area and takes a little time to get used to, but it isn't a deal breaker. In it's defence, no standard controller can truly replace a traditional arcade stick in handling the precise, quick and smooth movements, not to mention the 6 dedicated and responsive face buttons that Capcom and SNK brawlers practically demand. Luckily, Agetec released a stick just for the Sega Dreamcast to address these various issues and manages to bring the arcade feeling home; a definite must have for diehards. Overall, I'd still highly recommended this purchase for a person who still enjoys playing games on the best console that Sega ever made; the Dreamcast. After all, it always helps to have an extra controller handy when playing Power Stone 2, Chu Chu Rocket or numerous other classic multi-player titles from the Dreamcast library when friends drop by and are itching to get a piece of the action.