I really can't say enough good things about this game.  Firstly the code  is rock-solid.  It's probably the only 3D game that's ever played on our  clunky home computer without crashing or giving us glitches.  It also has  an atmosphere that constantly sends prickles down your spine and encourages  you to do more than shoot everything in sight.
This game WILL scare you.  As you fall into the world you'll start to jump at every bump and hiss  around you... and if you hear a monkey chattering you'll probably start  trying to shoot evrtything in sight.
Another interesting aspect is that  at the start of the game you get to choose if you want to be a straight out  soldier, a psychic, or a technical minded fellow.  The skills that you  choose can allow you to slip through the many traps and dangers in the  game.
The plot is that you are a soldier who has just recieved some  cybernetic implants.  You wake up from cold-sleep not knowing quite who you  are or how you got to where you are, and only have a voice on your comm  telling you what you need to do.  You're given help in the form of  cybernetic modules that upgrade your skills and allow you to gain new ones.  You pick up weapons from fallen monsters and also gain healing  items.
But you do more than just shoot things.  You have to operate  machinery, you gather up bits of crewmembers' logs to piece together the  truth, you perform chemical analysis on alien organs to find out what they  are, and you hack into replicator systems to try and get useful  items.
There were only two annoyances in this game, firstly weappons  degraded after use at a very unrealistic rate, and the monsters kept  re-spawning even if you wiped an area clean of them.  BUT.. the developers  were kind enough to come up with a patch you can download to fix this  particular problem, so its not that big of a deal.
Usually I'm a  straight-out adventure game player and I avoid 1st person shooters, but  SSII changed my opinion of them remarcably.  It was great to actually sink  my teeth into something with plot.