When buying a Game Shark to use with certain games you should keep a few things in mind. For one this is kind of "cheating" when playing a game. So if you're playing a really complicated game and you're telling people, "Oh yeah, I beat that game in like two days." But you were also invincible and had unlimited ammo, it's not as much to brag about as someone who used no cheats and beat it in three or four days. On the flipside video games are supposed to be entertaining (don't mix 'entertaining' up with 'ruling your life', get out of the house every now and then). Anyway, they're supposed to be entertaining and there is nothing entertaining about playing the same level 50 times in one week trying to figure out how the hell you get on the other side of this wall to flip the switch to open the door you're stuck behind and have to get through in order to get the switch and blah blah blah. You know, THAT whole bit. Using a Game Shark can let help you get through so you could later one day play the game without any cheats and when you run into a wall you can be like, "Heh heh, BLOW IT UP!!" or.... you know.... whatever it is you figured out with the Game Shark. It can also help make games that are too challenging for you, and make them easier for you. Different people have different ideas of entertainment. Some like a challenge and some just like to blow things up or walk into a building of about 30 or 40 people and take them all out without getting a scratch on them. Whether you love or hate them, I think everyone owns one or two at one point in their gaming phase. I know I thought they were lame and just taking the easy way out but I have one for my Nintendo 64, Game Boy Color, and Game Boy Advanced. I don't have much time to play video games like I did when I was younger but when I do get the time to pick one up I want to be entertained. Some days I like a challenge and other days I just wanna fly through a few levels real quick just to pass the time and actually have gotten somewhere.

These things usually come loaded with tons of codes for games. If you have a lot of games that aren't on it you can Google the title of the game, followed by a comma (one of these things ",") and the word "gameshark" or "gameshark codes." You can also remove games from the gameshark that you'll never use. You completely control what codes are loaded into the gameshark and what codes are active.