Don't you remember the times about 7 or so years ago before the vs. games like X-Men Vs. Street Fighter or Marvel Super Heroes Vs. Street Fighter were out, when you were at your local mall's arcade room, and you spent so much time and needed money on this one game everyone was lining up to play, you kept winning and no one could beat you, you had a blast and you ruled the arcade, you used the Amazing Spider-Man, or Good Ol' Stars and Stripes himself, Captain America, and maybe a little Incredible Hulk was throw in just to show off your skills with multiple players, and you used the Infamouse Yellow, Blue, Green, and all other Gems you could get your hands on to build Speed, Strength, Power, Defence and pretty much eveything else with your character! Well I do, and I was so stoked when it came out, and now you can bring those great feelings back with the PSX Version of this classic fighter from Capcom!

Gameplay: Almost arcade perfect with minimal slowdowns, barely noticeable, and you can still pull off everything in here that was possible in the arcade version.

Sound: Perfect, unmuffled voices that match perfectly to all characters, and music is still here(and still rules)with no remixes(Thank God)! Music plays just like you would hear it in the arcade!

Graphics: Great considering the Ram limitations of the PSX(like that was a problem for this game in the 1st place), and they were done with POLYGONS, yes, POLYGONS!

Characters: You get a line up of the following characters:
1. Spider-Man (My favorite! "Maximum Spider!")

2. Captain America ("Justice Will Prevail")

3. The Incredible Hulk (What's to say, he's a "Monster" hahahahahaha...sorry.)

4. Magneto (He rules and can pull off great combos!)

5. Wolverine (The cheap one)

6. Juggernaut (He's huge and probably deals more damage than anyone!)

7. Iron Man (With the Infamouse "Proton Cannon!")

8. Blackheart (A good and Cheep caharacter, but not as much as Wolvie.)

9. Psylocke (One of my favorite X-men, and overall choice over Wolvie, to bad Gambit wasn't included.)

10. Shuma-Gorath (Not used by me, but still deals damage needed to prevail in this game.)

Over-All: If I could, a 9.3/10.0, but I can't, so 4 out of 5, the reason being, could have been one point better if it weren't for the PSX limitations, but man, that definetly didn't stop me from getting it AT ALL! GET IT IF YOU DON'T HAVE IT!!

Thank's to Amazon.com for posting this review and YOU for reading it!