I had to write a follow-up review now that about 3 years has passed since my last one, and two sequels to this game have been published.  Despite playing the newer games, I dusted off and fired up my old copy of Jedi Knight/Mystery of the Sith (JK/MOtS) and had a blast.  The two are obviously dated, but don't suffer as much in comparison in terms of game play as the original "Dark Forces" (circa 1994) had in light of JK/MOtS.  Like DF, all the games in the Jedi Knight series are first person shooters.  JK/MOtS added the lightsaber and force powers with an enhanced game engine - besides better graphics and sound, it was now possible to combine moth horizontal and vertical head movements using the mouse (DF had separate buttons for vertical looking, which made the interface feel exceedingly clunky in comparison).  Also, basic movements were more natural - you never had that feeling prevalent in DF that you were a golf cart instead of a person.
But above the improved engine, JK excelled because it was as much a SW experience as it was a game - with a tight story line, excellent level design and filmed FMV cut scenes.  (Most people hated the cut-scenes - poorly acted and not very effects laden - but I loved them; they added to the movie-like feeling and, anyway, "Attack of the Clones" had horrible acting and scenes that went on much longer) You never had that feeling of other shooter games where you suddenly stopped and wondered - OK, where am I, what am I looking for and why am I hitting all of these buttons.  The story returns pro-rebel mercenary Kyle Katarn to the fore.  Learning that his father was killed by an evil dark jedi named Jerec, Kyle sets off on a mission of revenge. Soon he learns more - that Jerec rules an entire faction of imperials intent on locating the lost "Valley of the Jedi" (also featured in "Jedi Outcast").  The burial place of countless jedi, the valley also holds a bottomless reservoir of their force power.  The plot has Kyle tracking a traitorous droid named 8T88 from Nar Shadaa to his father's home planet of Sulon (the droid decodes a map leading to the valley - the map is then destroyed).  Great level design makes each player map seem less a map than a place that must be navigated.  AI suffers in terms of the imperial troops - who prove bad enough before their blasters are force-grabbed away.  Balancing that out, the game is generous with boss modes - sending you up for 5 lightsaber duels with the dark jedi, including the climactic duel with Jerec.  Personally, I hated the saber duels - they always seemed to boil down to hopping and slashing with sabers.  (Jedi Outcast is most improved in that respect - there are much better looking duels, and more of them).  Your force powers are divided between generic powers (speed, jump, sight) and those specific to light (heal, persuasion) or dark (lightning) forces.  Your reliance on dark or light powers (and your ability to keep from killing various innocent by-standers) will determine whether you are a light or dark jedi.  (The consequent difference for one side or another is not that great - mostly it determines which of Jerec's evil jedi you will fight in one of the latter duels, and which cut scenes you'll watch).  Sound and graphics compare well with the newer games, and the overall plot makes you feel like you're in a Star Wars movie.
This edition also comes with "Mysteries of the Sith" - a companion disk that uses a slightly altered game engine and was originally released separately, but otherwise required JK be installed.  In MotS, you play Katarn for the first several missions, then assume the role of Mara Jade, a former imperial agent brought to the light (her character was introduced in the novels of Timothy Zahn).  The tight plotting of the first game is gone - replaced by looser story arcs (as Kyle, you must save a rebel base from an imperial ground assault, then destroy an orbiting asteroid the imperials are using to stage their attack; as Mara, you will infiltrate the palace of Kapa the Hutt and then, in a switch, go to work for him; you will also track down and try to retrieve a jedi holocron and save a rebel corvette from marauding pirates; eventually you will follow Kyle back to a mysterious planet of the Sith where it's dark and swampy, the locals are hostile and hungry, and your weapons don't work).  If uneven, MotS has its share of thrills and challenges.  AI is noticeably improved (with stormtroopers ready to go fisticuffs when their blasters are force-grabbed) and gameplay is much more challenging on the whole.  Should you tire of the levels provided, an entire on-line community has crafted single and multi-player levels for both games.
In short, both games are still great values and enjoyment isn't terribly undermined by your having played Jedi Outcast - though it's obviously not the mind-blowing experience of 1997 (still, it's aged better than the Spice Girls).  If you've got a P4 - it's just an excuse to turn the graphics up to excessive.  I first played this on my P200MMX computer with VoodooII graphics acceleration, and enjoyed every minute.  On my P4, I had no Windows XP problems, and was able to crank graphics to the full.