Lucas Arts has come out with some notable fiascos over the past few years as far as games are concerned. Force Commander, X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter (which is only good in multiplayer), StarFighter, etc. This is one of thier outings that I actually would rate at 4 1/2 stars and is one of the most misunderstood and underrated games to come out of George Lucas's computer game brainchild.
  The premise is simple. You are given control of either the Empire under Emperor Palpatine or the Rebel Alliance under Mon Mothma. If you start out as the Imperials you'll get a significant advantage in technology and capital ships as well as more developed worlds...plus you have a bonafide Jedi in Darth Vader, who can detect and train Jedi Students as he discovers them, making these officers even more valuable (more on this later). The Rebels start off with 2nd rate capital ships and planets that are far flung for the most part. Thier base is moveable, and under the circumstances that's a good thing since part of the Imperials' goals is to destroy the Rebel base.
  I'll try to simplify this game, but it's not an easy task. Depending upon the size of the galaxy you have picked (Small, Medium, Huge, etc) your goal is to colonize planets and develop them, use diplomacy to introduce other cultures either into the Rebellion or the Empire, or outright conquer enemy planets. These planets can then be equipped with varying tools to make use of thier inherent commodities...for instance one planet might have multiple Shipyards for building your navy, while others might be resource sytems, used only for mining and maintaining your credit flow. Characters in the game each have inherent uses...some can do Ship Research, others can be used for Diplomacy, while others can be sent to Sabotage enemy worlds and ships. If the Character has been detected to be a Force User, then a Jedi Knight or Master can begin to train them, resulting in a Character with increased scores for thier particular specialty. In addition Characters can be places in positions of Authority, either in Fleets or on Planets. Admiral Ackbar can lead one fleet while Lando Calrissian can General it, thus resulting in your fleets doing more damage and taking less hits in battles.
  Research is a lot of fun and can be begun almost from the beginning, in one of three areas. Ship research (New ship designs, fighters, etc), Building design (New Planetary Shields, Improved Shipyards), and Troop Design (Dark Troopers, Sullastan Regiments). Typically whoever has a leg up in Research has an easier time controlling the game and it's highly recommended that if you find any NPC's (Wedge Antilles can do Ship Research, Bevel Lemelisk can do all three types)to start ASAP.
  The part everyone wants to know about though is the gigantic ship battles, and man they can get epic. There's nothing like seeing 100 Rebel ships do battle with the same number of Imperial ones, and engagements can run up to 30 minutes. The graphics of these battles are a little dated by today's standards, but still seeing a Calamari Cruiser turn sideways to exchange broadsides with a Star Destroyer is a sight to see. Fighters swarm around the whole time sniping at enemy fighters or helping engage the big capital ships. There's different options for your ships to maneuver into position for attacks, but as far as I can see they're for the most part pointless as both fleets typically run straight for the other and begin duking it out.
  Single player is fun, but gets dreary after a while, especially if you're playing as the Rebels. The Imperials generally name thier ships at the beginning, but the database for ship names must be shallow because soon after you'll start seeing such inspiring names as "Carrack Cruiser 152" or "Star Destroyer 43". And the most glaring deficiency in Single player mode is that the Imperials will *never* build a Death Star. Ever. Leading me to want to shout "The Death Star plans are not in the main computer"!
  This game becomes sterling in multiplayer though, and if you ever wanted to play a strategy game on an almost epic level, this is definitely a game you want to check out. A human will almost invariably play by different strategies than the computer will, and oftentimes you'll find different and sometimes very unique methods employed for winning. My brother tends to build zillions of fighters on each planet he owns, making capital ship conquest almost impossible to accomplish without matching the number of fighters in your own fleet. My nephew builds heavily into Capital ships with a mixed escort screen, basically heavy on planetary bombardment. I tend to make a mixture of the two aiming for a well rounded task force. And when Turn 5000 hits and you're still grappling for control of the galaxy with your opponent, well let's say that it never wears down on you. If ever you get a chance to build a Death Star, do it. It is an incredible rush to build one secretly, moving it suddenly and unexpectedly into your opponents main manufacturing planets' orbit, and then hitting "Destroy Planet", watching half of his shipbuilding capability go up in a blaze of smoke and rubble.
  Unless you have a LAN at home and know someone who wants to try this gem of a game out, the only place you'll be able to play is on Gamespy and Internet Gaming Zone, but expect games to be *very* long and drawn out, sometimes lasting as much as a week, depending upon how often you have to save and reload.
  The mediocrity of the Single player game is more than made up for in Multiplayer. Trust me and grab a copy and see for yourself :)