The console light gun game is something of a neglected genre. In the case of the Dreamcast, that problem can easily be attributed to Sega wussing out on releasing their own gun peripheral in light of the Columbine massacre. Thankfully, a number of third-party companies were willing to pick up the slack, and, thus, by spending some extra cash, you can play this highly enjoyable frag-a-thon the way it was MEANT to be played.
House of the Dead 2 gets my vote as the best "traditional" (meaning you kill things) light gun game available on a home system (Namco's Point Blank series, I think, has it beat in terms of potential enjoyability, but that's another kettle of fish). It's also one of the hardest. Even on the easiest setting with maximum health and credits, blasting your way through it is no small feat. Most enemies can sustain multiple shots, and dealing with several of them at once while not getting cut or bitten or tackled or whatever will challenge all but the fastest trigger fingers. For even more of a challenge, just try nailing all of those agonizingly evasive bonus items that appear when you shoot barrels, crates, etc.
House of the Dead 2 is not content to force you down the same path every time you play. Depending on how many civillians you rescue, and which ones, you will be sent in different directions within the same stage and the bosses will vary their attacks accordingly, so it's impossible to see everything the game has to offer in one session. Of course, the civillians are typical helpless weenies, begging pathetically for mercy and cowering in corners (one guy even dies from a single kick to the rib cage if you don't save him in time...WIMP!). Their voice acting, as well as that of the heroes and villains, is unsurprisingly weak, but the B-movie quality sort of adds to the feel of the game.
Graphics are mightily impressive, and pretty atmospheric, too; the look of a gloomy European town is captured quite well.
The soundtrack, while not exactly stellar, is certainly passable.
There's also a training mode where you must accomplish tasks like blowing zombies off a moving car. It's nowhere near as fun as the main game because there's really no margin for error, but it's a nice touch nonetheless.
Pointing a gun (plastic or not) at the screen and blasting away is a wonderfully primal, visceral video game experience, and you'd be hard pressed to find a better excuse to do it than this. The high level of difficulty may turn some people off, but for those of us who can only go for so long without shooting something, it's a real treat as well as a great reason to own a Dreamcast.