Finally, after YEARS of seeing Mega Man in 2D shooter side-scroller gameplay, Capcom began to realize the video game scene was changing, and realism was becoming more important than ever.  So in 1997 Capcom decided to take the classic gameplay of the old Mega Man games and bring Mega Man to an ENTIRE new 3D world.  I finally got to experience the 3D Mega Man adventure a few days ago, in July 2006.  So it took me NINE years to finally play it!  What can I say?  I'm slow!

I have a few problems with certain parts of the game but overall, I'm happy to report that the jump to 3D was a good one (not to mention a NECESSARY one!)  Mega Man spends the entire time in Legends jumping and shooting through a unique 3D environment.

I'm surprised so many people hate the graphics in the game.  They're quite wonderful if you ask me.  Sure, the graphics may be dated because the game is nearly 10 years old (and walking around in Mega Man Legends is sort of like walking around in a giant land of legos) but none of that should matter because you have to take into account the amount of FUN a game provides.  Mega Man Legends provides a LOT of fun.

I really loved one of the very first boss fights in the game where I had to keep running and hiding behind buildings because these giant walking blue, red and yellow machines were throwing bombs and shooting laser beams at me.  The first time I completed this battle it took a good 30 minutes ONLY for a bigger, badder machine to come in and defeat me in seconds.  At first I was angry because the game wouldn't let me SAVE before fighting this fourth boss.  "A half hour of work flushed down the toilet" was the thought that went through my head.

That led me to think the game might be too hard for me to handle, but it turned out I just didn't have the right upgrades for my X-buster equipped (actually I didn't have ANYTHING equipped!) so when I went back to do the battle again I defeated him (her, actually) rather easily.

Most of the enemies throughout the game are rather easy to defeat (including the boss fights).  Many of the boss fights will keep you on your toes, though.  The strategy to defeating many of them is to KEEP RUNNING and only turn around when the moment is right and BLAST them!  The only boss who isn't easy is the very last boss (who sounds like Michael Jackson) because he has TWO forms.  The first form you can figure out with practice, but on the second form he turns into a giant machine and THEN the challenge increases.  But it's possible to find enough money to carry up to 10 Sub-tanks to help you out DRASTICALLY.  If you were to carry 10 Sub-tanks he would be a VERY easy boss!  Despite that, the game provides a nice challenge because the way the story unfolds forces you to do a LOT of things.  You have to go HERE, you have to go THERE!  You have to collect THIS, you have to collect THAT!  You'll find out just how many items and weapons are in the game when you hit the Start button and see everything in your inventory.  It's borderline INSANE.

You see, to help make the game easier, what you have to do is go around searching for things (things located in treasure chests or holes in walls) and then you have to bring the things you collect back to this yellow vehicle where your female friend (or sister, I forget who she is) will be inside.  She can find ways to turn many of the things you collect into important weapons for you to use.  She must be smart!

I think I explained myself correctly, there.  It's kind of confusing because there's so many things you have to collect and that's the main reason I can't give the game a perfect 5-star rating.  TOO MUCH!  In Mega Man Legends you will find SO many weapons and SO many upgrades that it can easily confuse someone (like me) who's normally not exposed to this much activity in a video game.

You have to find a little dancing monkey to save your game.  When you're lost, he can also help you by telling you where to go, unfortunately many times he doesn't provide enough information.  So you can be left wandering around for hours until you finally have no choice but to find a strategy guide on the internet to help you out.

The music in the game is nice.  It's usually played quietly which is odd because most Mega Man music is RIGHT in your face.  If you can actually hear the music, it's pretty much what you'd expect from a Mega Man game.

Listen to those sound effects!!  Sound familiar?  Think South Park!  One of the children (or "pirates") sounds JUST like Butters, and a newswoman who appears later in the game sounds like Kyle's mom!  Some of the animation looks like South Park, too.  When did South Park come out?  1997?  Hmmm, makes you wonder...

Once again, the graphics.  They aren't as bad as I thought they'd be.  Sort of blocky, of course (since this IS Playstation ONE we're talking about here) but I can't bring myself to really hate the graphics because there's a certain mysterious charm about them.  Mega Man Legends LOOKS like a children's game but it's not, really.  Most children wouldn't be able to complete the game because some boss strategies require careful timing and it would be difficult for a child.

The play control... goodness.  It's definitely not easy to figure out at first.  To make Mega Man walk straight, you have to hold down the L and R buttons (this rotates the direction Mega Man is facing) while at the same time you have to use the up, down, left and right buttons to make Mega Man walk forward.  So, because you have to do a lot of running in Mega Man Legends, when an enemy is chasing you and RIGHT behind you, you have to turn around, use the L and R buttons to face him, and THEN hit him.  In the middle of hitting the L and R buttons will probably be the time you take the most hits.  It may take a few hours to properly pull off but you *should* become better at it with practice.

A trick to help you: when an enemy is chasing you, run as far away from him as possible and THEN turn around.  Usually the enemy will be far enough away that you will have time to control Mega Man so he's facing the enemy directly.  Then, simply wait for the enemy to get close and fire away!  I wouldn't blame you if you couldn't figure out the controls- it's not the greatest way to control a character.  I'm not sure if Capcom improved the play control in Mega Man Legends 2.

I find it funny and insulting that when you find a hole in a wall, many times a *very* small amount of money will be located there.  Small enough to not be able to afford ANYTHING.  It's funny because Capcom made it like "wow, you found money!" only to insult you with sofa cushion money.  To find a LOT of money you have to run around shooting enemies.

Just running around shooting enemies and collecting zenny (money) is a lot of fun, not to mention addicting.  A pretty good game worth picking up.