To me, Mega Man Legends is one of those games you'll remember years after playing it. The game itself doesn't break any new ground and has its share of flaws, but the overall experience is definitely rewarding.

Mega Man Legends pretty much plays like the earlier Tomb Raider games control wise. Unfortunately, there are a few problems with the control scheme, such as a lock on system that doesn't allow you to move while locked on an enemy (which was fixed in MML2), and the fact you also must contend with moving the camera manually in order to compensate for the lack of a better lock on system to hit your mark.

Legends also uses a pretty similar graphic engine as Tomb Raider as well, complete with all the flat, 2D scenery that rotates with the camera and all the pixilated surfaces and clipping problems that accompanied that era of Playstation gaming. Unlike Tomb Raider, the environments in Mega Man Legends are much brighter and colorful, adding to the games cartoon-like feel, rather than the dark, dank death-trap ridden tombs that Lara Croft raids.

The pretty low difficulty level of the game is also an important factor to look at as well. Considering this game is somewhat geared towards an younger audience, this isn't an error so to speak, but older, more experienced players will fly through the game in a handful of hours (especially considering most of the game bosses can be defeated by constantly circling around them and firing). Thankfully, Capcom added an unlockable difficulty setting to make the game harder for those looking for an additional challenge (oh and is it ever a challenge). Add to this Capcom increased the difficulty on Mega Man Legends 2 a few notches, and all can be forgiven here.

So with all these problems, why is Legends such a good game? Heart, and lots of it. Mix in a good story, a wonderful cast of characters (and enemies), and throw in some of Capcom's more respectable forays in voice acting department, and you got a winner. While some may claim that Legends carries a "kiddy tone", I actually find this to be one of the game's charms and strengths. Honestly, if you don't laugh when one of the Lego Men, err, I mean Servebots messes up and angers Tron, there is something wrong. Seriously, it isn't anymore kiddy than a Mario or Zelda game (or most of Nintendo's gaming library for that matter).

The other thing that makes the Legends series so great is the fact Capcom decided to quit while they were ahead. While I myself still wish they would churn out a Mega Man Legends 3 (considering some of the unresolved issues in Mega Man Legends 2's ending), at least Capcom didn't make a zillion sequels and drain the series of all it's fun and respectability, of which they have done a fine job of doing to the original series and X series.

In the end, Mega Man Legends is not a game you'll remember for amazing graphics, razor-sharp control, or challenging quests. Instead, you'll walk away with a overall memorable experience.