A Diamond In The Rough...

I can't believe I forgot to review this!  I've actually had this game for ages, and I even reviewed it's horrible sequel, Jade Cocoon 2, but I somehow forgot to actually write a review for this one.  Well, anyway, I'll get on with it.  Firstly, I should note that if you are a Studio Ghibli fan, this game should feel oddly familiar.  The art style is (from what I understand) either directly inspired by Ghibli - or the art design was actually worked on by Studio Ghibil members (not totally sure which).  The story, too, also feels pretty Ghibli-esque (but more on that later).  The only other thing I'll mention before I get into the category breakdown is that this game strangely comes in one of those double-CD cases, but only actually has one disc.  It's a pretty short game, so I have no idea what's going on with that.  Maybe the marketing department was trying to fool people into thinking the game was longer?  I have no idea...  Oh well, on with the review!

Graphics (score 7/10): The graphics are decent for their time (this game came out a couple years after Final Fantasy VII).  The cutscenes are anime-style, which is lovely because such animation  pretty much never ages.  The in-game background graphics are pretty good - they are quite detailed.  The only problem is that sometimes the backgrounds are too detailed - it can be hard to see items on the ground or to determine what is, and is not, a pathway.  The character models are kind of blocky like you'd expect for an old PS1 game, but there are in-game character portraits during dialogue, which is nice.

Music (score 7/10): The music itself is pretty average for an RPG.  It's decent, but not astoundingly good or anything.  What is of note, though, is the voice acting.  Yes, there is voice acting, which is unusual for a PS1 game.  Not just that, but the voice acting is pretty good.  I've heard better voice acting on more modern games, but for a PS1-era game, it's pretty darn good.  Believe me, I've heard much worse (Grandia comes to mind), so kudos to the developers for hiring some decent voice actors.

Characters (score 8/10):  Sigh, I really like this game, but it commits one of my most disliked offenses - it has a silent protagonist.  Levant never speaks and doesn't possess any sort of personality.  Thankfully, the other characters make up for it since they actually do have personalities.  All the characters have fairly restrained and normal personalities (versus some of the exaggerated and wacky characters you can get with a lot of RPGS), which feels pretty realistic for the setting.  Despite their demure personalities, you really start to feel sympathetic for Levant and his wife Mahbu as the game goes on.  Having an emotional investment in the characters is a hallmark of a good RPG, and Jade Cocoon succeeds on this front.

Story (score 8/10): This game can be described as light on plot but heavy on thematic elements and setting.  It relies more on it's atmosphere and themes to carry the narrative than on plot twists or an intricate storyline.  In fact, the actual plot itself is fairly simple.  A small village that has always been protected from forest monsters suddenly gets attacked one day and several villagers fall into a sleeping-sickness.  It's up to Levant and Mahbu (his newly married wife) to obtain a rare herb from the dangerous forest in order to save them.  Even though that sounds pretty simple, the actual themes are mature and thought-provoking.  Remember in the introduction  how I said this game reminds me of Studio Ghibli's works?  Jade Cocoon reminds me most of Princess Mononoke since they both have a lot of the same themes.  It literally feels like you are playing through a mythological tale or a fable of some type - in fact, the very opening of the game features a creation myth (complete with a frightening capricious deity) before the game sets you up in a more mundane human village.  The cultural setting of the game is radically different from a Western one; the people inhabiting this tiny village are very much bound up in the rigors of tradition and responsibility is put before personal feelings.  It's pretty much the opposite in theme to your typical RPG, which is all about running around the world having exciting adventures.  Instead of that sense of freedom, Jade Cocoon makes you feel the oppressiveness of this cultural tradition and the sad and weighty responsibilities put upon the young protagonists.  In fact, there are a lot of interesting concepts explored in this game, including arranged marriages, superstition and mythology, religion and creation stories, harmony and balance between humans and nature, prejudice, and morality.  The great thing about this game is that it doesn't really answer any of the moral questions it raises for you - it's up to the player to ponder themselves...

Battle System (score 7/10): The battle system is a turn-based system that will be instantly understandable to any person who's got a vested interest in RPGs.  What's different about this game is that Levant is the only character you get to fight with, and he's actually a pretty weak fighter.  You'll spend most of your time summoning monsters to fight for you.  Yes, Jade Cocoon is a bit of a monster-raising sim.  You can capture monsters of various elements (earth, fire, water, wind) to fight in battle for you.  You can also merge two of them together to improve their stats - and their appearance changes!  That's really the biggest selling point of the monster-related gameplay.  Based on what you choose to merge, you can make a monster look however you want it to.  Unfortunately, you'll usually be merging solely for stat boosts or to get certain abilities, which can sometimes produce a very fugly monster.  Still, it's an interesting mechanic to play around with.  My only complaint with the battle system itself is that the battles can feel a bit slow due to slow animations.  Speaking of which, the capturing animations are a bit too long for my taste, and even though the menu has an "off" option, I can't tell any difference between on and off.  Go figure.

Gameplay (score 5/10): This is a bit of a catch-all category for me.  Sigh, this is where this game takes it in the rear-end.  Jade Cocoon has the worst movement system of any RPG I've ever played.  Remember those old tank-like controls that infested early Resident Evil games?  Jade Cocoon has these!  Why?!  Basically, Levant slowly pivots left and right, and pushing "up" goes forward no matter what direction he's facing in.  It's a good thing the battles are turn-based or this would really be a problem.  It is, however, a bit of a problem in the forests because there are on-screen enemies that are very hard to dodge with these controls.  If you hold down the Triangle button Levant will run straight forward.  Once you get used to this you can hold down Triangle and sort of steer him left and right, but it always feels awkward.  In addition to those problems, the actual button layout is irritatingly non-standard.  The Circle button opens the main menu and the Triangle button backs out of the menu.  If you've played many Final Fantasies (as well as many other RPGs), you expect that to be the opposite.  Aside from the button scheme, the actual menus used to do anything are not terribly intuitive and are more convoluted than necessary.  For example, if you go to the shop, first you have to listen to the shopkeeper make random chit chat, then you got to a buy/sell/exit menu, then you can select buy to get something.  Sounds simple enough, but no.  If you select an item, you then have to put in an extra "yes I'm sure" confirmation.  Then when you want to leave the shop, you can't just hit Triangle to back out, you have to select "Exit" and then listen to the shopkeeper give you some farewell chatting.  This problem is especially bad when you are talking to Mahbu (Levant's wife) who basically manages your monsters for you.  Whenever you need to do something with her, there's a bunch of confirmations to jump through.  This isn't a huge deal breaker of a problem, but these little extra confirmations are everywhere and they slow down the gameplay.  It just makes the game feel unpolished and for a monster-raising sim, such a slow management system is unacceptable.  On top of all the things previously mentioned, the gameplay is a bit repetitive in that there's a very simple village-forest, village-forest, village-forest pattern and you don't every get to go anywhere else.  This isn't too bad though because the game is pretty short; so it ends before the repetition drives you mad.  All things considered, what keeps this game from being fantastic are purely all these gameplay issues.

Overall (score 7/10): NOTE this score is not an average; it's my subjective overall score.  It's a real shame that this game is held back by so many gameplay issues; otherwise it would've been excellent.  The whole game really feels like a diamond in the rough.  If you are an RPG enthusiast and can overlook this game's rough edges, then I still suggest you pick up Jade Cocoon.  It's worth a look if only for its unique story and atmosphere.