I am normally not a real big fan of "sim" type games, so I waited a while to buy this one.  I didn't like it all that much at first, but after picking it up I really got to like it.  This game is very precise and fairly realistic, which makes it hard to learn, but also a lot of fun to play once you have.
The animation and sound in this game are spectacular.  You build all sorts of amusement park attractions for your guests, and then you watch them walk around your park like little ants.  All of the sounds of a theme park are there.  The clickety-clack of the roller coaster chains, the screams of the riders as the coaster plunges down the hill, and the laughs of the children and yes.  The programmers even included the cheesy music that they play for the bumper cars.
Anything that moves can be clicked on and examined.  The level of precision and the amount of choices that you have in this game are fantastic, and sometimes overwhelming.  The game consists of twenty-some scenarios that gradually get harder.  Each time that you finish one, you get a new challenge, which keeps the game from getting too easy as you become more proficient.
The roller coasters have realistic physics.  This is both good and bad.  The good part -- if you are a roller coaster enthusiast, then you will love being able to design a working coaster.  You control everything, from the height of the first drop to the colors of the trains.  The bad part - designing even a mediocre coaster can get very tedious and expensive.  One big coaster will chew up all of your cash, and if you are playing a short scenario, you probably won't be able to build another one.  In addition, coasters take up a lot of space, and because of this, your park usually runs out of it.  I have played almost all of the scenarios, and I have never really gotten to build the "ultimate" mega-coaster.
The one aspect of this game that I found to be annoying was the tendency of kids to get sick from your rides.  This aspect of the game was BADLY overdone (maybe the writers thought it was supposed to be cute).  Even if they don't get sick, a lot of them will be afraid to ride it.  The park customers are total wimps.  You can build a 120-foot tall standup roller coaster with 3 inversions and nobody will ride it, because it is too "intense" (whatever that means).  The roller-coaster physics might be realistic, but the customer behavior definitely is not.  This is one of a few examples of questionable AI in this game.  Still, as a roller-coaster enthusiast, I thoroughly enjoyed this game.