Boy this is a tough one to write about. How can I fairly review a game  that has resided on my hard drive since the very day it was released? For  the technical minded, Half-Life (H-L) is based on a modified Quake 2  engine, but the modifications simply blow Quake away in almost every  aspect. Valve made an excellent move with this choice. It is well known in  the gaming community that Quake's engine has some of the most stable  networking code in the business. Too bad the video compatibility is a  little odd. For the gamer at heart, this game may have a . . . half life  longer than Quake itself. Valve made a good move allowing the gaming  community to have the WorldCraft level editor and other SDK software. What  this means to the average player is that a simple jaunt to a good web page,  will yield every manner of new levels, characters, and baddies to download  and install to their hearts content. And with Valve's Op-for expansion  pack, this game will take up a large amount of space on a lot of hooked  players' computers.
One of the most notable modifications to Half Life is  the apparently intelligent enemies. Shoot the "dogs" and they'll  run for cover and regroup with their pals. Let the marines see or hear you  and they'll drop a hand grenade on your head. Ninja's don't just run into  you, they jump over your head and land behind you. Crabs pop up at the most  inconvenient times. A well designed level and a poorly designed level is  differentiated by the "intelligence" of the enemies. Although the  modifications are great, they are certainly predictable to an extent. Play  the game enough and you'll eventually spot patterns to the enemies  "thinking".
So of course, after defeating the game forward and  backwards it would be time to test the Quake engine network code. Needless  to say, a 56k modem is NOT recommended. Even though with my experience the  network game play is better than the Unreal engine, the modem does this  game sad justice. Hopping up to anything better than a 56k modem really  makes this game shine. Valve has multi-player levels packed right in with  this game, nice big areas with lots of weapons make this game a fun  "frag-fest". The levels don't have that disgusting  "dark" feel to them. Underground levels have suitable colors and  lighting. Out door levels have an expansive feeling (although no where near  the "out door" feeling that Unreal does so well). Too bad that  H-L has compatibility problems with various video cards.
It's really not  so much compatibility problems it's really more that valve's default  settings for the are usually not the correct settings. (The voodoo video  family suffers the worst from this.) By default the video gamma is far too  bright for the voodoo 2 card. The decals have the incorrect value. Lighting  don't appear correctly. And SLI seems to have an odd effect on the game.  Most cards have their unique set of problems, and all of these adjustments  have to be done at the command level. Not something to be done by the  average gamer.
And this game screams to be played by all gamers. With  many advanced gamers using the enclosed Software Developer's Kit (SDK) and  WorldCraft to make new levels, and in some cases, completely new games.  Valve guaranteed H-L's place in the gaming community. Even if the average  player has no idea how to use the software to create new levels, they can  still go to numerous web sites and download any number of home made levels.  The  Opposing Force expansion pack and the upcoming Gunman game are direct  descendants of users and their Valve's SDK That are purchasable in the  store while hot downloads like They Hunger and D.S.S. Darkstar add free  life to the game.
This leads up to the final gripe with H-L, though not a  major one. I have the Team Fortress Classic (TFC) expansion, the Opposing  Force pack and numerous "user made" levels and my directory  continues to grow. Currently the space taken by H-L and the various packs,  levels, and extras has reached 912 MB of space. In contrast Diablo 2 (Full  installation) is 1.10 GB, while Diablo 1 is only 10.1 MB! The game's are  growing guys and gals, so the PC requirements should be followed like a  bible.
All in all I would have given more than five stars if the system  would have allowed me to do so. But I admit I had to take at least one star  away, I did this to force a point onto most people who wish to own a copy  of H-L. The game can be played right of the box but to get the full effect  of the game, you're going to need to edit the auto start and configuration  files. Voodoo 2 owners used to have the H-L Voodoo Doctor but alas, I have  not seen his web page in months. H-L really does not like the Voodoo card.  ATI Rage Fury does a little better, but you'll get a bizarre  "ghost" on occasion. The TNT family does the best out of the  bunch with the default values. I understand Valve is working on this issue  in H-L 2 (TFC 2?)  but we'll have to wait and see. Congrats Valve, this  game shoved Quake, Quake 2, Unreal, and Duke Nukem 3D permanently off of my  drive. I've since gotten a dual 13 GB drive configuration (26 GB total),  I've never even bothered to dust off those games. With the purchase of  Bungee software by Microsoft (Please God, Don't let Halo and Oni be X-Box  only games.) , the Multi-Player nature of Quake 3, and Duke Nukem (with the  Unreal engine) on a perpetual release date, H-L will be a tough game to  knock off the "Game of the Year" throne. Has H-L cursed the first  person shooter genre? Are developers afraid to knock the king out of the  ring? It may look that way.