I finally got around to playing the entire Gabriel Knight series. For the rest of you who haven't, you're missing out. These are positively the best 3rd person adventure games ever made.
It's hard to review GK3 on its own merits without comparing it to GK1 and GK2. First off, going directly from GK2 to GK3 was a shock, as the former is done entirely in FMV and the latter used 3-d CG technology. When GK3 was made, this was fairly new and not as polished as it is today. The environments are well done, but I had a hard time with the characters. They didn't look quite right, and a lot of their movements were stylized and unrealistic. I got used to this as the game progressed. However, I still find that I relate better to 2-D characters (as in _The Longest Journey_ or GK1) than I do to 3-D representations that are trying so hard to be human and not quite making it.
The script and voice acting were often not quite what I had come to expect. I particularly was not fond of Tim Curry's portrayal of the title character, a fact which struck me as odd, as I loved his work as Gabriel in GK1. But in GK3 I thought he had a little too much tendancy to go over the top, particularly with Gabriel's wisecracks, which sometimes seemed more suited to Beavis and Butthead. Gabriel as a character grows and changes a lot over the course of the games, and I don't think Curry's portrayal was true to that fact. I was also puzzled and irritated at Gabriel's sudden inability to pronounce French. He had a beautiful accent when French terms came up in GK1; what happened to it? Whether this was due to the actor or the director, it was a poor choice and it bothered me.
However, Gabriel Knight 3 is still a great game. Like the others in the series, it is quite long and takes a lot of thought and a lot of close attention to detail. I liked that the NPC's had lives of their own and moved through the game in ways that were unpredictable. By keeping close track of them, sometimes stumbling on interactions and conversations, you can get a much larger picture of what's going on. I thought this added a lot to the realism of the game. You don't have to see everything to complete the game, but attempting to do so both makes the game last longer and makes it very replayable.
Every Gabriel Knight game pushes the limits of the genre by utilizing special interfaces. In Gabriel Knight 3 the special interface is a computer within the game. In addition to being vital to solving one of the main puzzles, this internal computer offers a wealth of information on a variety of subjects. You can spend hours just searching the database and reading the entires. I thought this was very cool.
The puzzles in GK3 are generally a mix of standard inventory-based, timed activity, and arcade.  Often you have to wander around a lot to figure out what you need to do next.  One particular puzzle stands out as one of the best thought-out and most complex puzzles I've ever come across in gaming.  In it you must solve a riddle by analyzing and linking various inventory items.  It's a very long puzzle and some people might find it frustrating, but it was the thing that really caught and held my interest. If all I have to do is talk to people and find inventory items, I don't feel like I've really done anything. There's plenty of that in GK3, but you also have to stretch your brain.
I really enjoyed John DeLancie's performance as the villain. I also enjoyed the depth of interaction between the main characters, and I am very impressed with the amount of research into esoterica that Jane Jensen put into this and the other games in the series. If you are at all of a mystic bent, or have any interest in what might be termed the occult, you will like this game.
You can play GK3 without playing the other games in the series, but I think it wouldn't be as enjoyable, as the background information gives so much insight into the characters and their relationships. Still, if you're looking for a great story and challenging puzzles, don't pass up Gabriel Knight 3!