All of the reviews I've read seem to come from longtime players of this game rather then new players who actually bought the Battlechest. One of the first things you need to know about this addition that there is NO MANUAL. I was pretty surprised to discover this. But wait, you say, there are two official strategy guides. Yes there are. But they won't teach you how to play the game. They don't include basic stats on all of the units; they don't include all short cut commands; they don't include technology trees; they don't explain the concept of real time strategy games. They offers hints, observations and walk throughs of all of the missions which are handy, but not a substitute for a manual. The only help the game itself offers is a list of some of the keyboard short cuts, hints and one training mission which will be of little use unless you are familiar with real time strategy games.
I've recently discovered and fallen in love with real time strategy games and having recently begun playing Age of the Empires II and Empire Earth, I found the basic concepts similar and could figure you out in general what I was supposed to do. But I found myself struggling to understand the specifics of the game and how to best use the units to win the missions, with such incomplete information. Fortunately at battlenet.com, the official StarCraft website, I discovered extensive documentation. Still it's hardly as convenient as having a manual to refer to while playing.
Armed with a link to the battlenet documentation, I have played through half of the Terran Missions and have found them to be very entertaining. The missions are varied and gradually introduce you to new units and concepts. Hints are offered along the way. So far that are quite easy (once you actually understand what the units do) but for completely mastery of the game there is a huge amount of information to learn. Even though the graphics are not as snazzy as newer releases the attention to detail is outstanding. The cut scenes are excellent and the storyline is far more involved then other similar games. There is an amazing amount of strategic possibilities in this game.
In addition to the missions there are a bunches of ready made scenarios and maps in the Custom Scenario section ready to play. I suspect these were not in the original version, but since I don't have any documentation, I can't say for sure.
So if you have played more recent titles and are wondering if this will seem dated, rest assured that on the fun factor scale it compares very favorably to newer titles. But if you have never played this type of game, you may want to consider another title first unless you have a friend to help you out or are willing to invest the time needed to figure it out on your own.