Gabriel Knight 3 (GK3) is a challenging and entertaining game that is both aesthetically and technically pleasing, proving to be an all round triumph by game designer Jane Jenson and Sierra Studios. The player is immersed in a compelling, convoluted murder-mystery in a remote French village, gets to play as two characters and gradually unravels a complicated web of mysteries, suspects and, the key ingredient, vampires. The aforementioned aspects of GK3 make this 50-hour, 3 CD extravaganza a true delight to play; however, one may find that the plot is a little too complicated, which proves detrimental to the pace of the game.
  The player assumes the roles of Gabriel Knight and Grace Nakimura, both private investigators, in a small village called Rennes-Le-Chateau. The village is steeped in history due it being the suspected locality of the Holy Grail. Gabriel has been assigned a mission by Prince James, a wealthy businessman, whose son had been kidnapped whilst in the vicinity of the area. As Gabriel gradually uncovers more about the mystery of the kidnapped child, he concomitantly delves into a turbulent, violent world of treasure hunting, vampires, religion, riddles, shady characters and murder. It is a real pleasure to witness this fantastic story unfold, despite it being rather slow in unraveling.
  The marvelous, although slow moving, plot is incorporated into a fully interactive, 3D environment, which the player is able to investigate thoroughly due to a camera that is able to be manipulated. The player can move the camera around much like the camera in a 1st person shooter, allowing investigation of intricate spots such as under a desk or inside a dumb waiter shaft. What makes this locale-investigation so delightful is that each of the environments looks absolutely gorgeous, barring the occasional obviously 2-D tree or clearly polygonal hill.
  The sound is pretty good: the character(s) can eavesdrop on conversations and engage in conversations with striking clarity, to name but a few features. Although the voices come out crystal clear, the actual sound of the voices is quite terrible. Tim Curry (of Rocky Horror fame) is the voice of Gabriel Knight, and his feigned southern drawl quickly becomes irritating. Grace's voice is average, as are some of the other characters, and the script can sometimes be quite terrible. None of the characters, despite how life-threatening the predicament, seem to realise just how endangered they are. Gabriel even goes so far as to wisecrack when a razor-sharp pendulum is about to chop his head off.
  But despite the minor problems with voices or a rather sluggish plot, GK3's good points far outweigh the bad. It is full of challenging problems and provides hours of great fun and excitement, which is exactly what a game should do. GK3 amalgamates innovation with traditional murder-mystery storytelling, so if you're looking for an adventure game triumph, then look no further than Gabriel Knight 3: it's a real winner.