I have to admit that my copy of Gabriel Knight 3 sat on my shelf for over a year before I felt like playing it all the way through.  This was because I did not like the 3-D graphics this time around; after all, some of the "movies" on Gabriel Knight 2 were superb and you just can't get that with 3-D.  I still don't like the 3-D graphics, but once I started playing this game seriously I was hooked again.  The historical background stuff is always fascinating to me and any game in which a tube of Preparation H plays a part is always going to impress me.  I hate to think what sort of individual could play this game without resorting to hints and cheats, although they would have to be somebody with a lot more time on their hands than I am.  There is always some point where I need some help finding out what I missed out on that prevents me from advancing to the next time block (I didn't pick up the glass in the hallway and now I can't listen in on conversations going on in the rooms.  Sigh).  I like Tim Curry as much as the next person, but it doesn't sound like him so his return is not a big deal for me (I liked the guy in GK2).  What's more important here is the wry sense of humor: Can't get somebody to talk?  Try the gun icon, see what happens.  I have to assume most people who play "Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned" come to the game through one if not both of the first two Gabriel Knight adventures.  In that case I certainly do not think you will be more than mildly disappointed with episode 3.
I hear than this particular type of computer game, the Gabriel Knight/Phantasmagoria type, is on its way out because it takes too long to put together and does not sell as well as the bloodier arcade type games.  That is not good news, because these are the only type I play.  After I finish I'm going to have to go back and play again and try out some of the variations.  Note: It can be very useful to save the game at different points and go back and do some variations.  Getting caught snooping around can be also be fun.  Bottom Line: For most of Gabriel Knight 2 with its Wagner and Werewolves has been the highpoint of the series to date.  But I am more than willing to give anything Jane Jensen wants to do a try.