I heard that this game had garnered a good reputation, but until now it had never piqued my interest. There are so many games in the real-time strategy genre - you have classics like Age of Empires 2 and Command &  Conquer, or total stinkers like Tiberian Sun.
It's important to remember  that Starcraft was created at least two years before Age of Empires 2. It's  obvious that AOE2 borrowed some good ideas from Starcraft. The main one  being those of unit limits. In Starcraft you have a 200 unit limit, so it's  still possible to build a huge army. But you also have to balance that  against the number of units you use to gather resources.
Another unique  feature of Starcraft is the totally different sides. It absolutely amazes  me that a single game can have such diverse armies and yet still manage to  be so well balanced. There isn't a single unit in the game that can't be  neutralised by another unit - which is no mean feat, considering how  powerful they are.
The most interesting aspect to these units are their  special abilities. Certain units in each race have special attacks they can  use to neutralise or destroy an opponent. For instance, the Terran Ghost  soldier can fire an EMP blast that can knock out mechanical units. Zerg  queens can fire parasites, which attach themselves to enemies, allowing you  to see whatever that unit sees. The Protoss have the Templar, a unit that  uses a chain lightning `psionic storm' to eliminate whole squadrons of  units.
There are certain features which I wish had been implemented. It's  not possible to control the behaviour of your units (ie. setting them to  guard or defensive mode, etc...). This makes it entirely possible for your  entire massed army to chase after a single unit, when really you want them  to stay in one place. Fortunately, a `hold' command is provided, but I  still would've preferred to give my units more advanced commands.
The  other annoying aspect is map size. It's blindingly obvious that the maps  are too small when compared to the size of the units. Try leading a group  through a narrow canyon - because there is so little room individual units  will often take a different path to get to a destination.
Starcraft's  other strength is in it's storyline. I have never seen such powerfully  realized characters like this in a computer game. In truth, there are no  real good guys or bad guys in this game. Everybody has their own  motivations for their actions. The sequential compaign design only  strengthens this aspect. It's unfortunate that Tiberian Sun's Michael Biehn  and James Earl Jones didn't have a script like this to play with.
In  conclusion, Starcraft is everything that Command & Conquer: Tiberian  Sun wasn't. It has the best designed units of any strategy game. It has a  strong storyline which is beautifully realised in the single-player  missions. And the addition of StarEdit means you can create your own  missions once you tire of the Blizzard approved ones. No wonder why this  game has stood the test of time. However, the omission of advanced unit  controls mean I have to deduct one star.