Right up front, you need to know that this is not an easy game.  Video jocks who play all those fast paced (and basically brainless) real time strategy games will probably not go for this one.  However, thoughtfull  players with some tactical skill who like a real challenge will find this  game very rewarding.
The heart of the game is its tactical combat system,  which is by far the best that I've seen in any fantasy game.  Maneuver  plays a big part in it:  Using your faster units to circle around and hit  your opponent's archers.  Using your slower melee units to screen your  archers from his troops.  Using the terrain to set up "kill  zones" that you can lure your opponent into.  It will take a little  getting used to, so expect to loose your first few battles until you figure  out how things work.
The game has an interesting variety of units and  spells, and a particularly nice selection of artifacts that you can find in  dungeons and such.
The strategic level is good but not great. You collect  resources, you build things, you research spells, same as in most games.  One nice addition is the ability of high level characters to train new  units, letting them start off with some experience.  This solves the  problem that occurs in so many games of this type, where new units starting  late in the game are basically hopeless.
The two real weaknesses in the  game are  1.  A very limited diplomatic engine.  There are a total of eight  powers in the game, but your options for peacefull interaction with the  other seven are pretty limited. 2.  Weak AI players, at least on the  strategic levels.  Some of the computer players do absolutely suicidal  things, like walking their undefended leader up to one of your strongholds.  Even the toughest, Balkoth Lord of Death, isn't nearly as aggressive as he  should be.
Overall, this is a challenging but very interesting game that  players with some tactical skill will really enjoy.
Oh, and one fast note  for new players: The hardest part of the game is the opening.  To maximize  your survival chances, make your starting character a wizard of life, then  on your first four turns, attack four level one dungeons.  Then use all  your resources to hire mercenaries and attack the great temple.
Good  luck!