Despite not being a fan of other Jane's Fighters games, I enjoyed this entry.  The premise is obvious - fly missions in Europe's war-ton skies in the famous fighters of the day.  The format of the sim is similar to that of other Jane's fighters titles - you have a flight panel that's more for show than functional; you have separate pop-up windows for your instruments or to spot and range the enemy; you can click on individual targets and handy steering cues point the way to the enemy.  That said, WW2F is graphically a more modern generation of sim than those like USNF or ATF.  Graphics are more realistically defined, and are more immersive than those games.  The planes (instantly recognizable to any mil/av buff) look so realistic, you half expect to see your reflection in their chrome finish.  Atmospheric effects are clearly superior to the first CFS (which roughly coincided with this game) - including clouds, AAA fire and smoke effects from wounded aircraft.  Flight is difficult even at nominal settings - aircraft here are unstable, and may fly apart if overstressed, or simply fall out of the sky if load-factor isn't watched.  AI is somewhat impressive (I mean, I routinely got shot out of the sky, but I'm normally a horrible pilot), though must be compromised to an extent to fit a game where everybody in fighters will fight each other.  (Case in point being Me-262 jets, which will remain in prolonged combat with prop fighters like the Mustang, even though there principal quarry was the box formations of allied bombers; their acceleration and turning capabilities made them unsuited for dogfighting.)  For its great atmospheric effects, nothing seems to cover up an unconvincing attempt to model the terrain of Europe - although most of your work will be up high.  The campaign mode isn't quite dynamic, but it's not as canned as the one on CFS.

In short, this is as solid WW2 sim - perfect for those intimidated by the hardcore realism (and hardware requirements) of IL-2, but left hungry by CFS.

I ran this on a Pentium 4, with XP and a 64MB GF3 card.