I'm surprised at the number of reviewers who found this game disappointing.  I found it to be a challenging expansion pack that significantly raises the difficulty level over that of the original.  No, Tales of the Sword Coast doesn't extend the story line of BG, and, no, the story line doesn't even FIT comfortably within the original BG plot.  And yes, Tales IS basically  an add-on that simply allows your characters to increase their experience points and find new items in the process.
Still, I think it is a fault to criticize the game too much (as many customer reviewers have) on issues of story line.  If you want a great, involved story, well, buy Planescape: Torment (my vote for greatest RPG title ever).  Even though Tales of the Sword Coast's game objectives may seem completely out of whack with the BG main plot, think back to BG and I think you'll recall LOTS of areas that didn't have anything to do with the iron shortage or Saverok  For instance, did the Firewine Dungeon "really" play a crucial role in terms of story line?  Did helping Drizzt fight off those hordes of baddies really advance the plot?  How about all the random quests?
In other words, I think one should evaluate TOSC using one simple maxim as a guide: namely, are the new areas fun to play?  In my opinion, the new areas in TOSC are both challenging and enjoyable.  One of the levels (***BEWARE, SPOILERS HERE***), the ice island is a throwaway, but the other two, Werewolf Island and Durlag's Tower, are impressive.  Werewolf Island does have a captivating plot, and although it's size in terms of area isn't large, the battles are numerous and semi-difficult.  Durlag's Tower provides players with something that BG kind of lacked:  a decent dungeon crawl.  I found Durlag's Tower very involving and moderately difficult.  Unlike the ridiculous monster count and borderline unplayability (in terms of difficulty) of Icewind Dale's dungeons, Durlag's Tower strikes a nice balance between being difficult but not too difficult; it knows how to challenge players without forcing them to die, reload, die, reolad, die reload, ad infinitum.
Lastly, I found this game a decent value in terms of length.  TOSC is now a bargain bin purchase, and although some customers here like to brag (lie???) about how the game only took them 10 hours to complete, Tales took me betwen 1 and 2 weeks to finish.  I admit that I may not be a master AD&D player, yet I did successfully complete BG and felt that my party was very much up to the challenge of the expansion pack.
This game does get docked a notch, however, for some small problems: 1) Pathfinding is still troublesome.  2) Inventory juggling is still a nightmare.  I truly believe that about 50% of Baldur's Gate (and this expansion) is spent juggling inventory items.  3) The puzzle element introduced in Durlag's Tower is more annoying than fun.  4) The next-to-final battle against a monster summoned with Durlag's Blade is insanely difficult and convoluted.  But basically, if you enjoyed the original you should probably enjoy this expansion.