You bet you do! You sweat buckets if it's 1944 and you're in a B-17G Flying Fortress over Germany on a bombing run to your target. 'Bomb doors open, steady, steady...bombs away'. Two things come to mind. (1) This doesn't sound like a typical flight simulator, and (2) flying straight and steady at 30,000 feet doesn't sound like a lot of fun. Right on the first but dead wrong on the second. This game is different from all other WWII flight sims to date, which have largely focused on man on man fighter combat. This is a multiple position role playing game whose primary platform is the B-17G (the only disappointment is that there is no multiplayer capability). There are 10 playable positions in the 'fort' including pilots, navigator, bombardier, turret gunners, waist gunners and tail gunner. The role playing element is so much fun and immersive, you may very well find that this is the only 'flight sim' where you spend the least time flying. Let's step back into this immersive game world for a minute to see how we arrived over our target in Berlin.
You've finished the 'pre op' reconnaissance briefing and you're on the way out to the tarmac to your 'fort'. There she is in all her glory, your 'Patsy Sue'. Those refitters sure did a nice job repainting the nose art and fixing the damage from the last mission. She's gotten you this far - the 13th mission. Halfway there. This mission's a beast though, - Berlin! You say to yourself 'Can I get the guys through the remaining 12 missions before we ship back home. Pray God, let there be no Me 262's this time'.
This little immersive scenario is courtesy of the game allowing you to take the role of pilot of your plane or squadron leader in charge of 12 planes or group commander. As group CO you pick the targets, plan the missions, select bomb loads and assign crews. You can also name crews. There is an operations room where pre flight recon and post op damage assessment film can be studied. Your B-17 is beautifully depicted. You can name her as you wish and change the nose art.  Let's get ready to take her up on the first of 25 historically based missions where we will come across other flyable planes. Three 'little friends' - Mustang, Thunderbolt and Lightning and three German fighters - Me 109, FW 190 and the deadly Me 262.
Engines on. Throttles up. Let's roll. Release brakes, adjust trim, take off speed, we're up. 'Navigator set course for Initial Point.' Weather outside is cloudy, It's expected to clear up over the target. Coastline coming up now, 'Where is that down there? - the Elbe river? Good job navigator, we're right on schedule'
Each of the playable positions in this game is incredibly detailed, none moreso than the flight deck. If the prospect of going through a 30 step engine start up procedure seems daunting to you, then simply jump to another player position and let the computer pilot take off. Each crew member has his strenghts. Lose a good navigator or bombardier and  you'll see the effects in degraded mission success. Replacements are never as good. The roar of the engines is impressive, and so are the other sound effects. Hopefully the ones you'll hear the most are those of healthy thrumming engines and your 50 cal guns barking out, not the sounds of exploding flak and the screams of your hit crewmen. The weather and terrain effects are also fantastic. Naturally there are various gameplay keys that provide a myriad of external views of your plane and the formation you're in and there is a timeskip key that rushes you towards the action.
We're approaching the target now, and beginning our bomb run. Out of the blue and shouted over my headphones, tail gunner says 'Bandits!, Six o'clock high, coming in now! Looks like 109's'. I'm firing now, remember - lead them, fire just ahead, let them fly into the stream... I'm missing!, God what a time to realise I should have put in more practise. From the waist position I see a black puff with an evil orange eye, burst under the port wing of the 'fort' flying next to us. 'There goes another 17' over the intercom as it slowly sinks out of formation, smoke spewing from two engines. Shrapnel has punched holes in our wing, metal frame is showing. More serious is the injury to the turret gunner. 'Navigator get back there and see what you can do'. The bombardier calls out ' 'Bomb doors open'...time seems to stand still, finally...'Bombs away', the shudder and sudden lift confirm it. 'Head for home.' Starboard outer engine now sputtering, any flames? No, smoking slightly though. No need to feather engine. How long to go? how many injured? how bad? Did I mention this game was immersive!!!?
We were lucky on this mission. No major damage and only one injury. We also failed. Our bombs came down nowhere near the target. One of the more arcane skills you can learn in this game is using the Norden bomb sight, adjusting for wind drift and making all the necessary adjustments to ensure an accurate drop. After unloading, pop down to the target view and wait for the thunderous explosion that signals the arrival of your bombs.
Now that we're safely at base the question is: Do you sweat when playing a PC Game? You bet you do if it's this game. The system the game was tested on was a P3 with 128 ram and Diamond Viper2. There were a couple graphical glitches - seams in the terrain being the only one that broke the immersive spell.