Baldur's Gate was the game that mannaged to blow new life into computer roleplaying games. For those of you not familiar with roleplaying games or the AD&D rules, here is a short introduction. You start out with creating your character, selecting a race(dwarf, human, halfling, gnome, elf and half-elf)and a profession(Fighter, mage, cleric(priest), ranger etc, etc). Then you roll up your ability scores each representing one physical or mental ability (strength, dexterity, constitution, intelligence, wisdom and charisma). After creating your character you start the game in Candlekeep, a keep located on the swordcoast famous for its library. You are an orphan raised by your ward Gorion. The start of the game is easy and not very challenging, but it does give you time to get into the game mechanics and there are several tutors in Candlekeep that can give you advice on the game. I will avoid going into any further detail about the game plot as it will ruin the joy of the game.
The game itself features a linear story line, but with a lot of subquests, some minor and some larger. There are plenty of areas for your party to explore, but beware, some of the areas might prove more than you can handle in the lower levels! As the plot thickens and you find out more about your background and the powers working against you it becomes more interesting, and you find yourself working towards the grand finale.
The graphics are fine, considering the game isn't new anymore. This is truly an entertaining game with only a few flaws(flaws that I only noticed after playing Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn). The character interaction in the group is almost non-existant, and it would have been nice with a little more in-groub dialogue. There are plenty of characters that you can have join your group...almost too many. Sometimes you are really have doubts about who you want since you are limited to a total of 6 members(including yourself). Even with the limited NPC(NonPlayerCharacter) interaction most NPC's are still very different and have good developed personalities.
The main plot is really good, intrigue based, although it seems that at some point you find yourself a bit "lost" in all the subquests and explorable areas there are, that you almost lose sight of the "real" goal of the game.
That said, it is still a great game. Most importantly it mannages to get the AD&D "feeling" to the computer, almost like the real thing. The AI does not always work as it should though, and you might find your characters blocking your path, so you are suddenly "stuck" in a small area and need to reload. This can be annoying, but knowing the danger of this happening can help you avoid it.
A note, this game is very different from games like Diablo and Diablo II, none of which were true roleplaying games. If you are looking for a way to hack and slash your way to glory this is not the game for you. There is a need to interact with other people during the game, and the way you behave and answer them will affect their reaction towards you, unlike Diablo where everything is a monologue. If you ever played and enjoyed tabletop AD&D, this will almost certainly entertain you. If you never tried AD&D this might just get you introduced.
I propably would have given this game 5 stars, but since I played Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn, I have chosen to limit myself to 4 stars, as there are a lot of things that are enhanced in SoA.