I'll state from the outset that my background in RPGs is limited.  Sure, I had friends who would gather together on Friday or Saturday nights to play pen and paper D&D, but I was never among them.  Occasionally, however, I did enjoy playing computer-based Role-playing games (the three Bard's Tale adventures).
I say all this in an effort to convince non-AD&D people or non-RPG players out there to give Baldur's Gate a chance.  Yes, AD&D rules are numerous and complicated (I have no idea, for instance, what 6D+4 means), but don't worry too much because the computer takes care of all this for you.  Essentially, you'll encounter enemies, you'll push your spacebar (to pause the action) and point and click, directing your party members how and whom to attack.  The computer calculates all the die-rolling stuff.  You just sit back and watch the blood fly.  This is not to say, however, that BG is a brainless game.  In fact, you'll learn quickly that "Fools Rush In" if you don't think about battle strategy.  Put simply, Baldur's Gate achieves a perfect balance: it both satisfies hardcore D&D folk who have long clamored for an accurate PC RPG experience while also not scaring away newbies.
This is not to say that BG doesn't take some learning.  The manual is thick and at times confusing (particularly in how to memorize spells).  There are lots of options in BG, so you'll have to become familiar with the game interface and inventory system.  Be prepared to spend several hours just getting comfortable with how the game operates.  Also be prepared to die a lot in the beginning.
Once you've mastered the controls, this game gets addictive, and fast!  BG is now an older title, and with BGII having been out now for over half a year, the original is currently a bargain bin purchase.  I bought my copy through an online auction for eight bucks.  Those eight dollars provided me with six weeks of constant gameplaying.  Most action games can be completed in less than a week, but BG was vast and involving.  The world is huge and sprawling, side quests are seemingly infinite, and replay value is a bonus.
So why four stars?  Well, like many people, I have my subjective, nit-picky problems.  First, the pathfinding is pretty weak.  It's mostly okay when you're out in the open, but in dungeons, the pathfinding is flat-out horrible.  I barely escaped the Firewine dungeon alive because whenever I'd get into a battle and order my commands, my party members would then stupidly go off in six separate and unexpected directions.  Second, although the world is huge, it does get tedious trudging across the BG map.  At times, the game can feel like a chore to explore that unnamed wilderness section that's located leagues away from where you truly need to go only because, well, you feel there might be something interesting there.  Third, going up levels takes a long time.  Don't get me wrong, I realize that going up levels shouldn't be too easy to accomplish, but it's kind of disheartening to only be a level seven fighter at the end of the game (because there's an experience point cap of 89,000) with thirty-odd hit points.  Either raise the cap or make level limits a bit lower.  Lastly, although hardcore gamers may love the myriad spells, weapons, and potions, I felt there were too many.  Your party members don't have many slots for carrying items, and all those items you find during your travels (potions in particular) become annoying (should I use such-and-such potion immediately? should I save it for a big battle? should I sell it and make money? should I simply leave it behind).
Still, despite the quirks, I've never been so deeply involved in a PC game, and I'm looking forward to my next purchases: Icewind Dale and BGII.