this game, just annoys me to the point i don't want to play it. the term Metroidvania doesn't do it justice if anything it insults the Metroid name because everything in Metroid is about exploration and everything is deliberate. SotN just teases you in the first part of the game and annoys you all together. so, at the start you play as Richter Belmont, picking up from Rondo of Blood, or Dracula X in the west. you reach Dracula and enters chessy voice acting. so your like oh ok, i can dig this, but you're already fighting dracula so what else is there to fight? fast forward a couple of years and now enters Alucard, running through the forest and jumps the gate. awesome scene, now your in control and this guy has a powerful weapon and armor. so everything just dies in one hit! yeah! just as powerful as Richter. then its taken away from you. that. is. so. not. cool. why the big tease?? where in development they thought was a good idea to show players Alucard's powerful equipment then have it taken away??  then the sense of direction. oh my god, after that big tease you follow the path and then after a while you explore but you can't because you need a relic to open blue door, but you need to find the relic, but you don't know where to find it! you find those relics laying around only that they supposed to be in the game already! not a fudging relic to show enemies names or the damage! its cryptic and its not known where to go. then the spells, its never told that you can cast spells to gain small health and summon a spirit. however! moving away from the negatives i will say that the soundtrack is amazing, and the graphics have aged well. its an ok title, much like Simon's Quest this game isn't for everyone and i'm almost done playing the game and i feel i've wasted so much time getting lost i just want to fight Dracula and get it over with! that's the point isn't? to get lost, waste time, get powerful, and then comes the endgame boss, your pretty powerful already, so you'll be disappointed on how the boss fight came out.

overall, its an ok title, but to me its just more annoying than fun, i'm already level 21 and majority of the boss fights are becoming easy, but i'm nearly done with the game, so i have to beat it now. its a game that just wastes you time, all games are, but this one and simon's quest just literally wastes your time like no other. the portable games of Castlevania follow this formula now, which is disappointing. just try this game out for 5 minutes then you'll see what i'm taking about. its also an XBLA title so you can find it pretty easy or pay for a PS1 title.