Kingpin: Life of Crime is a dark fps with a great gameplay set in the real bad world. You play a unnamed guy just called Thug. The game opens with thug badly beaten up and left in an ally by Nick's men, Nick works for the kingpin, Thug vows to get revenge, but he does not have anything besides a small pipe, so he has to kill people for money, he kills people takes their money and weapons, buys more weapons, hires goons, rides on a stolen bike, jumps into a moving train, finally he takes on the kingpin, kills him and he becomes the kingpin. The single player gameplay is a different and great experience, no boss levels, all the villans are humans but their weapons and toughness changes. Besides shooting the baddies you have to talk and get advise from people in night clubs, visit the pawn o matic, hire goons ect. The level design is fantastic, From a dark ally, a steel mill, railroad, bad streets ect. They are very fun and very enjoyable to get through. The level are huge and are in hub layout. The weapons are good, There is a pistol, shotgun, tommygun, grenade launcher, bazzoka and a flame thrower. The flame thrower looks as good as it is in rtcw, This same company did rtcw.
Kingpin is built on the heavily modified quake2 engine. I play it on the default OpenGL video mode and the game runs very smooth. The graphics are fantastic, look great even today. The charecter animation is good but thier flesh moves as if they do not have any skeleton. Sound is very good, weapon sounds and the music is great. The voice acting is averange and almost all the male charecters sound the same. The art direction for each levels is superb, artists who did it should get an award for their contribution, kingpin has the best art direction in a computer game even today. Wow! fantastic environments look real and the atmosphere is superb. Kingpin is a very violent game, you could see arms and limbs comming off, baddies injured and running away will leave a trail of blood. the level of violace and langauge make games like sof look like a kids game, you can reduce them by installing the pg-13 version. There are lots of bad words you will hear the f-word hundred times in the first level itself. The AI is quite good, villans react well in situation. Kingpin is a very good game, If you do not mind games with heavy violance and bad words then you will surely like it. It is one of the realistic and coolest fps i have ever played.