Pros:
1. This game is exactly like being in the middle of a Star Trek episode. You play a Star Fleet Cadet who's father was killed during the Borg encounter at Wolf 359. You are offered the chance to go back in time shortly before the battle to see if you can change history. As soon as you accept the challenge, you are transported to the bridge of a starship as the crew prepares to engage the Borg. You have the uncanny, poignant experience of watching the father you scarcely knew as he interacts with his shipmates, tries to save his friends, and bravely prepares for a battle he is doomed to lose.
2. I haven't played many Full Motion Video (FMV) games, but I thought this one was very well done. The acting is as good as that on any Star Trek episode; the Borg are horrifying and menacing; and Q is in magnificent form, as usual. It was great fun to have Q chastise and insult you in the same sarcastic way he uses with Picard or Janeway.
3. The puzzles are well-integrated into the story, and allow you to use some of the equipment and consoles that you've always wanted to try. I did not consider the bulk of the puzzles to be particularly difficult, although they do require some out-of-the-box thinking. There are lots of alternate endings in this game: most of them start with your demise, after which there is a commentary from Q as to the "efficacy" of your efforts.
Cons:
1. The game plays a lot like a movie, with certain decision points at which you choose how to act (these moments are clearly signaled in the game). There were enough of these to make it feel pretty interactive, but not nearly so many as in a traditional graphic adventure.
2. When a decision point occurs, the game will not respond if you click too quickly. In order for your decision to register, you must hold the mouse down firmly for a second or two.
3. I would have liked the game to be a little longer (though in the ongoing tension between length and quality, I'll take quality any day). Actually, I would have liked the game to be a LOT longer. Truthfully, I would have liked the game never to end...
Bottom Line: A Must-Have for any Trekker, or anyone who enjoys FMV adventures.