The original Tomb Raider was a landmark game for the Playstation and the start of a very long running series. It holds up well, but is a definite acquired taste.

Tomb Raider begins with adventurer and treasure huntress Lara Croft being hired by business woman Jacqueline Natla to search an ancient cavern in Peru for a piece of the Scion, an ancient talisman of great power. However, after finding the piece, Lara is betrayed by Jacqueline's men. Now it's a race across the world to find the remaining pieces of the Scion before Jacqueline attains its mythical power. Tomb Raider is an early Playstation game, and unfortunately the graphics haven't aged very well. Although many set pieces in the game are very impressive all the levels tend to feel very samey. Despite this the game's length is impressive. There are over fifteen massive levels with hidden caches of ammo and first aid packs, giving you a great sense of exploration throughout the game. Lara moves in a very stiff fashion. Her controls are tank-like and You have to hold down a button for her to walk. She takes very long jumps, but running jumps have a delay that requires you to plan your jumps ahead of time in most cases. Fortunately there is a training mission where Lara instructs you on how to play in her home. The game is primarily a puzzle platformer. Each level contains a series of puzzles that will test your problem solving skills.

Scattered throughout the many ruins and caves are vicious animals and hired goons all chomping at the bit to impede your progress. This is where combat comes into play. Lara starts off the game with twin pistols that have unlimited ammo. Through out the game you will find a variety of firearms, however these weapons do have limited ammo, but the pistols ensure you will always have a fighting chance in battle.
The last gameplay feature to talk about is the process of saving your game. The PC version of the game allowed the player to quicksave wherever they wanted. The console versions of the game on Playstation and Sega Saturn do not have this luxury. You can only save with the use of crystals that are placed along the path you are intended to follow. Unfortunately, once a crystal is used it is gone. This makes it really difficult when you've got a very long stretch ahead of you and not much health. Some areas have multiple crystals forcing you to carefully plan how often you save.

This game has many flaws, but it is a very rewarding experience. I would recommend the game for those expecting a challenge. The later games in the Tomb Raider series ironed out many of the issues experienced here. If you're curious about the beginning of the franchise you won't be disappointed, but maybe a little stressed.

For classic PC gamers I'd recommend Tomb Raider: Unfinished Business. This is the original game plus two bonus missions with two new levels a piece.