Those out there who decide to play a game based solely on the hype it creates, no doubt know how cool The Final Fantasies and The Lunar series are.  But if you skipped over this one just because it did not create the Final fantasy type of hype prior to it's release, you missed something special.
When I picked up Suikoden, it was a slow night, and just about everything else I wanted to rent was out.  When I first played it, I was slightly ambivolent in my decision as to whether or not It was a cool game.  The opening intro, with it's soulful choir, gripping and excellently composed music, and great still pics of the games scenes and cast, blow's away almost every tune in the final fantasy audio library.  Heck, Andrew Loyed Webber or John Williams would be hard pressed to do better.  But upon entering the game, things seemed to be... only average.  Though the story was good, and the dialouge was well written, and there were powerful and very funny scenes early on, it lacked Final fantasy's epic atmosphere.  Also, the opening is the games audio highlight.  Don't expect it to get any better then that.  But what Suikoden II lacks in atmosphere, it makes up for in substance.  The charachter's are written in such a way that even the most fantastic and unreal scenarios seem believable.  From Luca Blight's savagery and cruelty, to Shu's strategic brilliance, to Jowry's desparate measures that he takes to protect those he loves, every moment is very believable and real.
Also helping the game is the number of secrets and sidequests that there are.  It's here that Suikoden shines, there are limitless quests, charachter's, mini-games, and hidden items for you to find and do.  Giving the Game Unrivaled depth
This game is a heavy hitter.  There's no doubt about that, but I liked the final fantasies better.  They just have a way of grabbing you by the heart strings that Suikoden Rarely achives.  It's still one of the most awesome Rpg's out there, and I do reccommend it to anyone who's already completed Chrono Cross or Final fantasy IX.  With a little more tweaking, Suikoden III will be able to hang with those big RPG bad boyz.