Pros-
Priced right at just $15 for jewel case.
Still very popular with hundreds of potential opponents online.
Balanced weaponry, no one unit or structure rules.
Huge variety of maps and missions.
Easy to use map editor.
Additional games online such as capture the flag.
Game rarely lags or runs choppy even with 2v2 and 3v3 games.
Doesn't require much computer or a top video card.
Everything is on just one disc.
Cons-
Cartoonish graphics are a bit dated.
Gameplay, while easy to learn can be tiring and out dated.
Over all warcraft 2 is still a great game and loads of fun. I had known about this game for a long time and finally decided to pick up the $20 version which also provides you with a strategy guide. An exellent value! I heartily recommend this game because you know what you're getting. The concept is ok with the humans v the orcs but almost all my time with this game is one on one multiplayer. You don't have to go to battlenet.com you can also play a buddy modem to modem. How you begin the game depends on the map but usually you start with one peon or builder and a certain amount of resources. You will always need a certain number of farms to feed your people as well as a steady supply of gold and wood. Wood is everywhere but there are a limited number of gold mines and it is around these that you will build your camps. Most of your military will come from a barricks and you make more peons from a town hall. You'll need a blacksmith and lumber mill to upgrade your troops(swordsman,archers,catapults ect.) and from that point you can add specialty forces such as gnomes, mages and flying birds that crap explosive eggs. Note that i'm referring to the human race because i play that all the time. The orcs are very different and frankly quite weird. One of their units for example is a huge beast with two heads that only uses it's fists as a weapon. Both races can make a cool spy plane and a fairly complete navy as well as towers that can be upgraded to shoot cannons or arrows. Oil is another resource that's needed to make some more advanced units.  A lot of strategy is required because maps are very crowded with many narrow passage ways. Some maps even start you off completely surrounded by trees so you can't go anywhere untill you cut down a path. I like those maps because it prevents quick attacks.
Game play is fairly easy to learn. You just click on a building and the unit you want to build. It's easy to order your units to fight or where to go but you can only control 15 units at a time. The biggest negative about this game is that you can't queue up your barricks to produce more than one unit at a time. This can make the game a bit too busy and tiring and requires you to have several barricks. For example to maintain a steady source of resources you may need two main camps and one smaller one surrounding gold mines. That means probably at least 5 barricks, three town halls as well as at least one gnomish inventor and aviary and a navy or two. Considering you will have at least a couple dozen peons gathering resources and building farms it becomes a contest of who can point and click the fastest as you constantly move from building to building while trying to control your military units. A lot of work. Too bad blizzard hasn't added the multi queing feature which exists in age of empires gold and just about any newer game. Maybe there is a mod that can be downloaded to ad this feature but it is not available here. For that reason i only give the game 4* but it still makes for plenty of good clean fun for very little money.
.............socks