"Railroad Tycoon II" is the 1998 sequel to the 1990 classic "Sid Meier's Railroad Tycoon". Even though Sid's name has jumped ship, this is a solid sequel to a great game. The premise is simple enough: Build a railroad, buy some trains, ship stuff from where it is to where it's needed. Get rich.
From humble concepts mighty games are grown, and enriching this basic idea are things like: train quality, which forces you to choose between [cost], fast, good on slopes, or reliable; keeping demand high by supplying only small amounts versus the cost of connecting other places where demand is high; short routes with small payloads and fast turnarounds versus long routes with big payloads; buying and selling stocks to take advantage of economic trends; buying the businesses whose materials you're transporting; defending against train robbers or hiring shady characters and exploiting legal loopholes; and so on.
Basically, this premise works, and supplies hours of good, addictive fun. There's a lot of replay value as well, since you can take a different approach to each game. The graphics are (still, even in 2003) pleasant and communicative, and the sound is mostly good. The scenarios are pretty challenging without (for the most part) being crushingly hard, and the three levels of victories encourages replay as you try to "go for the gold".
The are a number of hitches, unfortunately. The manual and tutorial are really inadequate--which tends to sting given that most of the fan-supplied data on the Web is gone. The supply-and-demand process is actually somewhat opaque. (I did figure it out, but it took me a while and some research on the 'net.) Your board of directors is very gullible, not able to look ahead even a month (this makes them easy to manipulate). The stock market stuff makes it easy to lose with a thriving railroad and doesn't add much to the game that I've experienced.
Further, trains really only go from point A to point B. That is, say you have cattle yard (B) that needs grain and two grain farms (A1 and A2) that supply grain, you can't set up a train to pick up grain at A1, travel to A2 to pick up more grain, and then travel to B to drop it off. When the train stops, it's completely unloaded. This is never spelled out anywhere, and certain ways of setting up a train's route suggest otherwise. But in the above situation, your train will actually unload grain at a grain farm (for no money) rather than haul it another ten miles to the cattle yard, where it's actually needed.
The scale of the game is such that each train moves about 1/50th-1/100th of its actual speed. In other words, a trip that should take a week takes a year. This is probably a necessary abstraction(train-model fans will want to keep in mind that this game has NOTHING to do with their hobby) but it has the effect of exaggerating every mistake or mishap. Jesse James didn't just rob a single train, he robbed your entire route for the year.
All of this detracts a bit, but it's a testament to the strength of the concept and execution that this would still be a five-star game, even with these issues. The killer--the thing that made me subtract a star--is the track-laying interface. It's really easy to lay track you didn't mean to. There's no undo. It actually costs you to remove it. The way the UI figures out the smoothest route is dubious, and there's really no decent handling for the fact that finding the smoothest track is best done at the closest zoom while finding the shortest route is best done at the furthest zoom.
Coupled with some bugs that make stations seem disconnected, you can end up in a situation where you lose a game because the track-laying interface was not up to the task. And that's the only =real= sour lemon in this package. Again, though, even with this, there's still a lot of fun.
It'll definitely whet your apetite for "Railroad Tycoon 3".