_Sanitarium_ opens with a movie:  a man on his way home from work calls his wife with the news that he has "the answer."  Next thing you know, his car flies off the road. He wakes up in an institution, his face swathed in bandages, with no idea who he is, where he is or how he got there.  Of course, this is exactly what he -- and you as the player -- must now find out.
_Sanitarium_ is a really great, old-style, 3rd person adventure game that combines an intriguing story with interesting puzzles, a spooky atmosphere and pretty decent graphics for its time. In its nine levels you visit various parts of the asylum, a huge insect hive, a scary circus and other places, all steeped in the main character's personal mythology.  Each level not only has its own internal continuity, but is connected to the larger story by threads of symbol and dream logic.  I found this fascinating and extremely well done.  It was one of the things that kept me wanting to play even when it was late at night and my eyes couldn't focus any more--something I haven't experienced with a game in a while.
The puzzles are a pretty good variety:  some inventory, some conversation, some mechanical.  Most are pretty easy once you find what you're looking for, but there are a couple of frustrating pixel hunts where it's possible to miss the one thing you need to move on.  Also, sometimes the inventory, which flashes when it can be used, has to be positioned in exactly the right place.  There are also a few action sequences and you can die.  Usually I really object to this in adventure games, but _Sanitarium_ handles the action the way it should be handled:  the sequences are pretty straightforward, if you die you get to start again at the beginning of the sequence without going through a tedious "You failed" ending sequence or reloading from page one, you have infinite lives, and the pieces of the puzzle you have managed to solve STAY solved, so you don't have to repeat what you've already done over and over.  Take a tip from this, game designers!
Navigation is a little awkward to start -- you interact using the left mouse button and move using the right -- but you get used to that quickly enough. The main problem is that the character can get sucked into things like stairs, so you spend a lot of time going back and forth (or I did, anyway).  Another problem is that sometimes you have to have your character in exactly the right spot before he'll do what he's supposed to.  If he's not close enough he'll say "I can't do that (or some variation thereof)."  Except for sometimes, when he'll walk over and complete the action on his own.  I found no rhyme or reason to this and it got a bit annoying in places.
The graphics are mid-nineties graphics:  3rd person, 2-D.  So if you can't appreciate a game that doesn't have all the latest bells and whistles, you won't appreciate this one. There are some really gruesome scenes, not for the faint of heart or stomach. The voice acting is mostly pretty good but in some places character voices were hard to understand.  There are subtitles, though, so that wasn't a problem.  Other sound f/x were well-done, being suited to the various environments yet not too repetetive or demanding of attention.
I completed _Sanitarium_ in about 30 hours.  If I had a complaint it was that the ending was a little rushed and I felt that all the gaps in the story hadn't been filled in.  Still, compared to the bulk of games that are being released today, this is a great find and a worthwhile buy!  If you like older adventures, _Sanitarium_ is a must.