"Silent Hill" is one of the best survival horror games out there, even better so than "Resident Evil". As earlier reviews have pointed out, this game is not for the faint of heart. The story concerns Harry, an average man who comes to the small town of Silent Hill, a town with a scarred history. He is on vacation with his daughter, Cheryl, and on their way, there is an accident. When Harry comes to, he finds himself alone, his daughter missing. Add to this, the town is deserted. As you might expect, there are dangerous monsters lurking about. The purpose of this game is to find Harry's daughter and unlock the secrets of Silent Hill's past. It won't be easy, though.
"Silent Hill" is better than RE in that it provides much more realism. Harry is an average person like you or me, not a hero or arsenal on two legs. Like most humans, he is not an expert at conflict, so this makes the battles much tougher. The atmosphere is where this game reallt excells. The deserted town is creepier than anything out of a horror movie, with fog so thick that you cannot see 10 feet in front of you. The snow falls steadily. The music is subtle, adding to the creepiness. The monsters come out of nowhere, and there are many occasions that will make you jump.
There is less action than the other survival horror games, but in a game like this, it is not a big loss. The game is more about solving puzzles than blowing monsters into oblivion. Unlike RPGs, there are no  experiece points, no levils, no benefit to fighting every single creature. Running from fights is often the best move.
The one big flaw, which prevents this game from getting five stars, is the clunky controls. I pity the person who plays this game without the analog joysticks. Harry is very difficult to move around, thanks to the complicated control system. It takes a while to get used to them, but by that time you will have gotten killed a few times. The monsters come out of nowhere, and you have mere seconds to react. With controls this complicated, battles are really frustrating.
But all in all, this is a fantastic game. Lots of depth, thrills, and scares. Sadly, this title is out of print, so grab it if you can find it. But it comes with a warning, it is violent and disturbing. Use with caution.