I have played all of the main Silent Hill games, but I didn't own this game until a few years ago. Recently, I decided to finish it and see how it really held up. At first, I wasn't so sure how well it held up, but the more I played, the better it got.

A big difference with this game in comparison to the later ones is that the psychological aspects are less well-defined. As a result, it feels less cohesive than the later games. That's not to say that it doesn't have sad or scary moments, though. It definitely has those (more the latter than the former), but is held back by the dated technology and bad voice acting. I actually still like the graphics because the distinctly rusted and bloody design of the parallel world shines through, and there are some fine textures and special lighting effects. The more realistic prerendered cutscenes still hold up well. A unique aspect of these scenes is that they have no dialog whatsoever, which was an artistic challenge that paid off in conveying the characters' emotions better than the unearthly voice acting could.

The voice acting is not very good. Some of the actors seem miscast, and suffer from uneven performances. It doesn't detract too much from the experience, but can trigger eye rolls in more cynical audiences.

The music is less distinct than later games, and favors some very odd, disturbing tracks (such as "My Heaven"; go ahead, look it up on YouTube! >:D) that are less melodic and more industrial. On the other hand, from the weapons to the monsters to the environmental noise, the sound effects fit the game very well. They serve to make Silent Hill seem more alive.

As for the gameplay, it's decent, if not as tight as the Resident Evil games of the time. I enjoyed fighting more than the puzzles, which I always found a bit too hard and obscure (just wait until you hit the infamous Zodiac-themed puzzle). If the puzzles annoy you, just hit up GameFAQs for the solutions. It's worth it to get past them.

The controls were a little confusing since I'm more used to later survival horror games, and I sometimes found myself awkwardly readying my weapon when I wanted to strafe. The game is a little tight with healing supplies, but not ammo; I wish I had used my firearms more.

I found that this game was scary, but not as much as the later games were, and in a different way. It relies more on "jump scares" and doesn't instill quite as much consistent dread. I was pleasantly surprised to still find some of the monsters scary and shocking, which I can't say for later games, on the other hand.

The story was always hard to understand, and depending on what ending you unlock, will be even harder to comprehend. It lacks thematic cohesion, and I always found it to be one of the lesser Silent Hill tales. Luckily, the game has a lot of replay value, and was made with multiple playthroughs in mind.

Ultimately, Silent Hill holds up, but not as well as Silent Hill 2. It's still a classic in its genre with a great setting and levels, but if you can't get past the dated presentation, you can knock a star off of this review.

Mine was a used copy that arrived complete and in a condition that is comparable to a new copy.