As you could guess, being a film student and all, that I prefer slightly the cinematic fear of the Biohazard/Resident Evil series over this, much more eerie style of fear, but that doesn't mean that this game didn't scare me as much, if not more.
What's so great about Silent Hill is that the danger has a sense of reality to it, unlike in Resident Evil where you really just fight some monsters who jump through windows at you and watch some highly entertaining scenes. The fog adds a new element of fear, in which something might be out there; and with the radio, you KNOW when there is an unseen terror lurking in the shadows or precipitation. Real life is more like that: where you can't see your enemies, not where they are just big enough to withstand several direct shotgun shots.
However, enough comparisons to the horror-king series, because this game is neither better nor worse. This game is simply different. Your hero isn't a cop, and the disaster is much more philosophical and fantastic than scientific, which isn't just Resident Evil, but also Parasite Eve. This isn't as much X-Files as it is the Twighlight Zone.
The story is about Harry Mason, an average Joe, coming to the resort town: Silent Hill, with his daughter. What he doesn't realize is that at that very time, the forces of darkness are struggling, almost fighting one another. As a result, there are many dead people around, and the town itself is now pulsating with evil. Sometimes he'll leave a building, where the time of day, or the design of the town will change within seconds, right before his eyes. However, after each boss battle, all the super-levels of darkness will subside, and the daytime will come about again, where the danger is much more scarce; it's kind-of like Castlevania II: Simon's Quest (a true classic), where there are times of light evil, and times of overwhelming evil. However, unlike Simon's Quest, you cannot just wait it out.
The main point that I'm trying to make, is that this game is easily as scary as Resident Evil, but it's less in the real world; yet, it has a strange sense of familiarity to it. However, if you were brought up with the other survival horror world, than don't expect this to just me one of the better entries; this is it's own unique bloodline (well, Fear Effect was similar, but THIS is MUCH MUCH BETTER!!). I know horror players who have given up on this game due to the fact that it is too scary. I have myself, and I'm sure all these other reviewers did as well. You will too, but that doesn't mean that you won't like it.