Fighting Force was the wanna-be "Streets Of Rage" for PlayStation. If you grew up in the 90's and owned a Sega you'll know what I'm talking about. The game had tons of flaws such as the lo-fidelity sound effects (sssshhhhheeeewwwmmm) and the blocky PC-like design of the characters. Heck, it looked like a Windows 95 platform game.

There are four characters to choose from : two chicks, a big giant and the handsome one. They each have their own moves but have serious shortcomings. Smasher can take a lot of damage and deal it too; but he's slow as a mule. Hawk is a decent fighter but is open to a lot of hits. Alana and Mace are both quick (alana moreso) but are weak and fragile.

The game was unduly hard due to the overhaul of the game's engine. Back then, games overloaded easily especially if they were not rendered correctly. The load times on this game tell you there's a lot of extra space here. An obvious pitfall is when there are many enemies/items on the screen it evokes slow command response but ONLY from players' controllers (remember trying to grab a guy and your player executes an 'air grab' 1 second after you press the button?). This resulted in getting beat up from 5 or more directions and having a briefcase hurled at your head. Not fun. Items were also a bother as you found that punching a guy mysteriously involved you picking up a crate first. Then you got kicked in the shin and you dropped the crate as two more guys fired shots at you and you're spinning through the air. Fun! Yet when you want to pull a pole off the wall you instead invoke a reverse backhand that misses and makes you look like an idiot. And for that ugly move sir you get a pipe to the face.

You eventually either get frustrated with the game or you learn to live with it. The game experience for me is always bitter sweet because even though I've learned to live with the quirks they still get in my way. The game gets progressively harder as you advance through the levels and sometimes you white knuckle your controller to keep from using a continue (which, by the way starts you over on the level...totally bogus!). When you finally DO finish the game it seems underwhelming. You'll see what I mean when you finish it.

All in all, despite its obvious and frustrating flaws, the game is still a classic. If you don't own it you owe it to yourself to take a trip back in time. Re-live the polygonal loading-screen glory!!