Before SIlent Hill was released, all we horror gamers had to scare us were the Resident Evil (Biohazard) series of games, with big, flashy chills and spills, and the Alone In The Dark series, which were just plain bad console conversions of average PC games. It just goes to show what can be done with a genre when a development team sits down and outs their heads together properly.
Eclipsing Resident Evil and all other competitors in terms of scares, character development and sophistication, Silent Hill, upon its release in 1999, was unfairly ignored by the general public, even though critics were highly impressed with its blend of psychological method-scares and real-time environments. The public, used to zombie dogs bursting through windows and super-sharp pre-rendered backdrops, couldn't seem to get into a foggy real-time atmosphere where what you heard was scarier than what you saw. However, thanks in no small part to it's sequels (the standard-setting Silent Hill 2, and the graphically amazing, slightly hollow SIlent Hill 3), the original Silent Hill now enjoys something of a Classic status, and I have to say, it's very well-deserved.
You play Harry Mason, a widower, whose daughter Cheryl goes missing en route to their vacation in the resort town of Silent Hill. Along the way you encounter allies and enemies (Cybil the Cop, Dr. Michael, Nurse Lisa, and the memorable Dahlia Gillespie, one of the series' coolest characters to date) and unravel the ghastly truth behind the desertion and possession of a seemingly innocent town.
The graphics haven't aged well, but still have the ability to scare. One of the first survival horror-games to utilise fully modelled realtime environments, the camera angles and darkness/fog make for some truly chilling views. You find your way with the aid of a map, torch and a radio that emits static only when an enemy is close. Since darkness and fog are very cleverly employed in the game (ostensibly to keep the slowdown to a minimum, it also serves to heighten the tense atmosphere) what you hear and do not see is a lot scarier than what you do see. There are also several of the truly cool, nightmarish vignettes that the series has become famous for - Pyramid-Heads in steel cages, the Mark of Samael, and terribly wasted corpses cling to walls and ceilings and give us a deeper sense of the ravages of satanism.
The gameplay and controls in the game, while doing nothing really new for the genre, are loose and easy. This is a system that will never be perfect, lacking the fluidity of the Tomb Raider games and the precision of point-and-click adventures, but does the job nicely. The auto-aim of games like Residnet Evil isn't present, so shooting can become a tense and exciting exercise - but you'll more often than not end up running scared from whatever it is you can't see.
The characterisation is superior, thanks in no small part to superb pre-rendered cut scenes and excellent voice acting. Konami have taken great pains in all of their Silent Hill games to make sure that we understand the characters in the game, and the original is no exception. Our protagonist Harry is the dullest of the players, but he's still a likeable and well-realised character. Cheryl is not the stereotypical bug-eyed Manga cute girl we've come to expect from Japanese games, and she;s all the more realistic and endearing because of it. Nurse Lisa is sinister and forbidding in her surroundings, but her innocence and frailty is heart-rending - I defy anyone not to mist up when she makes her exit in the game. And Dahlia Gillespie is a masterpiece, she's a scary, eccentric old woman that will stay in the memory long after you've finished playing.
I hate giving away plot points in my reviews, and I won't here, either, but a word of advice from a survival-horror completist - CONSERVE YOUR AMMO. Depending on the ending you get (one of a possible five) you may have to fight up to three end-of-game bosses. And nothing spoils your enjoyment of a game more than having to replay the final half for more ammo.
All in all, Silent Hill is a convoluted, enthralling game. It may be slightly rough-looking in places but it's well-worth the ride, and an absolute MUST if you intend to play the laterst installment. Highly recommended.