In 1998, Hideo Kojima single handedly changed the scope of gaming with one game: Metal Gear Solid.  Within Metal Gear Solid, there were ten VR Missions.  Surprisingly, people spent a lot of time with these VR missions, trying to clear them as fast as possible and honing their skills.  When word of this got out, Konami developed Metal Gear Solid: VR Missions.  A game that consisted of nothing but VR missions for the gamers that wanted them.

If anyone expected any story out of VR Missions, you'd probably wonder what they were thinking, because VR Missions doesn't have a story.  The game is exactly what it says it is: VR Missions.  Metal Gear Solid VR Missions consist of over 150 missions.  At first you can only do very basic missions, including the same ten that were included in Metal Gear Solid.  As well as training with weapons.  The more missions you complete, the more that will open up, including missions that can get into the bizarre, like fighting a giant soldier and super soldiers.

In terms of variety, Metal Gear Solid VR Missions does a great job.  There are so many different varied missions here to keep you busy.  You'll also be able to unlock the Ninja and a couple of other secrets, although, none of these things is very lucrative.  While it's great to play as the Ninja, the controls are a little sloppy, and there are only three incredibly short missions.  As I said, however, there are a ton of VR Missions here to keep you busy for a long time.

Visually, VR Missions is on par with the original Metal Gear Solid, the only real problem being that they didn't opt to create more different looking levels.  So much of the stages look fairly generic, save for a few missions where you'll find yourself in some familiar looking areas from Metal Gear Solid.  You can only stare at virtual space for so long.  Much of the music sounds very good though.  While the soundtrack isn't exactly huge, it plays a good part in letting the player know that through and through this is not an action game.  It is definitely a puzzle game.

There are two things about Metal Gear Solid VR Missions that can cause some alarm, though.  The first being that many missions are fairly short, meaning that this game only really serves as an expansion of Metal Gear Solid.  It's a mystery why Konami didn't just start packing it in with the original game after a while.  It never really happened.  The second huge problem is that the game advertises that it has 300 missions.  What they don't mention is that many of those missions are the same.  You'll undergo one mission and then be expected to do it again in a Time Attack.  To the developers this serves as two different missions, but it's the same mission.  The only difference is that you'll be doing it with an additional challenge.

As a puzzle game, Metal Gear Solid VR Missions is fantastic.  It gets repetitive having to do some of the same missions over and over, and it may only really just be an expansion of one of the bonuses in Metal Gear Solid, but it still serves as a fantastic game for those who crave to do more VR Missions.