Originally attracted by the box, which you've got to admit is one of the best-looking around, I'd been thinking of buying Revenant for ages but considered it vastly overpriced (unlike Black Isle games, which seem to drop in price by at least half when they've been out for a remarkably short while).  Recent lower pricing (along with the long wait for the release of Baldur's Gate 2) saw me grabbing a copy, loading it up and setting off on a short, but immensely enjoyable quest. It turned out to be a great time filler.
In the single player mode, your character is Locke D'Averam, dead for 10,000 years but because of unique skills, brought back onto the mortal coil to rescue the kidnapped daughter of the head honcho of Misthaven, the main town on the island of Ahkuilon, by a mysterious magician with (surprise, surprise!) his own agenda.  During his quest, aspects of Locke's past gradually reveal themselves and his visions start making sense by the end.  Sounds like a poor man's "Planescape: Torment", you might think, but since nothing can compare to that epic, forget it and judge it on it's own merits.
Likened by many to Diablo, this game is superior in that it actually has a reasonably compelling storyline (though badly voice acted) and the combat system is not your average hack'n'slash - you learn new battle techniques from the master as you advance.  The use of a game pad is strongly recommended, though I survived all the combat encounters by pounding the hell out of my keyboard while moving about with the mouse.  The scenery is beautifully rendered (the lighting is a real feature), and animation of Locke and his enemies is superb, though a tad repetitious - like the giant spiders getting stuck on the sword and having to be removed with obvious difficulty (hilarious the first time), the death gurgles of the ninja guys got old very quickly.
This is the only game I've played lately where you can carry everything you find - there don't seem to be any weight limits and there are millions of slots, especially once you have a few pouches which you really need to negotiate the huge inventory you end up with (I had about 10 full suits of armour at the end - I was too scared to sell any in case I needed their special properties).  Even though the armourer and weapon smith promise bigger and better equipment, you actually find the best stuff during the quest, though you need to buy some stuff to start off with.  Unlike many other games, except at the very beginning, I always had enough cash to buy any potions, etc. that I needed.  In fact, at the (rather abrupt) end, I had about 60 unused potions of various sorts, and about $100,000.  Also, your character is usually strong enough and well enough equipped to survive most encounters pretty easily.  I found the fact that he wasn't constantly being killed quite refreshing.  None of the puzzles were too taxing, though I had to redo one level for the want of one vial.
Even though the price was reduced, it was still fractionally more than I paid for Planescape: Torment, or for that matter, Baldur's Gate, each of which provided rich and stimulating entertainment for a couple of months.  I spent exactly a week getting to the end of Revenant, and since I'd been having such fun, I was totally unprepared for it.  Remember how disappointing the end of Diablo was?  Ditto for Revenant - the final encounter was quite easy for my impressively armoured, well-armed and richly provisioned character and the whole thing was quickly wrapped up in a movie sequence.  It left me feeling the story was only half told and that the developers just suddenly decided to get it to some sort of conclusion and out in the shops, while they got on with something else.  I wish they'd just gone on with the next chapter - despite any shortcomings mentioned above, I thoroughly enjoyed it!  This is the game to play when you're half concentrating on something else - in my case, LIVE coverage of the Sydney Olympics.