I've just read some reviews for the game all over the net.  Everyone is trashing it...and I really don't understand why.  Is there a certain rule that bargain games cannot be good?  Must a game cost fifty bucks for it to be good?  That's what all magazine reviews seem to be leaning towards.  Don't listen to them, it's just their opinion anyway.  They're a bunch of spoiled babies who sit there and get paid to write ridiculous reviews on games like DS.  I just got the game today, wanted to check out what it was like and surprisingly I found myself playing it for 2 hours.  Bottom line is that if you like Diablo, you will probably like this game.  Same style, same type of dungeons, same everything.  Don't be fooled by those spoiled losers that work for these magazines who are trashing this game in their reviews.  Just because it's not made by Squaresoft doesn't mean it cannot be fun.  I've had more fun playing this game than I did Vagrant Story and that got great reviews.  That's the last time I'll trust magazine reviews...it's all opinions.  Can't lose price-wise on this one, and even if you don't like it as much, you won't be banging your head against the wall for buying the "editor's choice/pick" and finding out that a supposedly bigger, more expensive game is no different graphically than the one I'm writing this review for.
Here's the rundown on the game (1 worst - 10 best)
Graphics: 6  We've seen better graphics on playstation, but hey, this wasn't meant to be state of the art...then again, neither was Frogger but we played that for months now, didn't we?
Control: 8 Can you rotate the camera view at any time in Vagrant Story?  I think not.  Button-smashing (as some of the reviews claim)? Not at all.  Movement could feel more realistic, but we're not here to complain.
Fun Factor: 10 After spending 2 hours with the game, it's about as much fun as Diablo was when I opened up the game and popped it in for the first time.  How much longer will this last?  Who knows.
Music: 6 Average sounds, nothing phenomenal...
In true Amazon fashion, I give this game 4 out of 5 stars.