... and it's not just because the fanboys like her exaggerated assets, either. I'm more a roleplayer than an action gamer, but there's enough character involved in the Tomb Raider series to keep me interested.
Lara's adventures follow the same basic mold as _The Mummy_ or the _Indiana Jones_ movies; she goes poking about in ancient sites and gets involved in Things Man Was Not Meant To Know (and that Woman Was Meant To Put Right, apparently!). Being action-oriented, the game gives you a wide range of motion, and does a nice job of making you feel the difficulty and danger of some of her feats -- jumping over pits filled with spikes, swinging on ropes over chasms, climbing sheer cliffs, swimming through shark-infested waters, and so on. In The Last Revelation, the dark Egyptian god Set is unleashed upon the world, partly through Lara's ending up somewhere she shouldn't have been, and so Lara has to put a stop to his rampage. Normally one human against a god would be a silly idea, but then again, the last time Set was loose, human beings didn't have fully automatic weapons, bazookas, and grenades.
The game fails to get a perfect rating from me based on my own preferences and skills. Firstly, because it IS an action game, many of its challenges are based simply on your being good enough to do some particular set of actions very, very well. I'm not the greatest in the world at doing some of the more complex sequences, and this means that it can take a frustratingly long time to get past one challenge -- in some cases, days to either figure out the precise sequence of moves which will get me from one point to the next, or to actually perform the sequence of moves once I've figured it out. Timing is critical, and restarting the game from the last saved point can take an annoying amount of time.
Secondly, because I'm more a roleplayer, I find the lack of choices in actions somewhat stifling. Yes, I would as a rule choose to go and do the heroic thing, but you don't really get any choice to even be reluctant, go get help, or anything else. You work alone, you volunteer automatically, and so on.
Still, playing a couple of Lara Croft's adventures showed me why this series still continues; it delivers exactly what it promises, and does so with panache.