First off, I'd like to thank Jaleco for the effort they put into making this game.  It's not the greatest in the world of survival entertainment, but it was a good first effort, and I wanted to acknowledge that.  The game has a fair amount of good and bad points, and I'm going to go over all of them, starting with the bad just to get them out of the way, and to end this review on more of a high note since I did enjoy this game more than I didn't enjoy it.
 The obvious bad point was the voices, and voice acting.  The main character, Jack, had almost no inflection in his voice no matter what he was talking about, or doing.  I would have liked to have been able to turn his voice off, and have just read what was going on, it was so annoying at times.  Plus, watching his mouth still move for a long time after he was finished talking was a true annoyance.  I did get used to him after about an hour, but I wish they had found someone who could have showed just a little more emotion.
 The graphics were a bit chunky and blocky at times too, and the camera angles were almost too excessively annoying, especially going around corners, where if you were the character, you would be able to see down the hall, but the view they give you on the screen is still a third person look, and you can't see down the hall until you actually start moving down it.
 Okay, now onto the good.  The weapon selection in the game isn't all that big, but you do get what you need to accomplish your goals so I don't really have a complaint about that.  As a matter of fact, I liked the fact that you were given a weapon that had unlimited use.  It's called a welder(why I don't know), and seems strange to be a weapon, but it's very effective against single zombies, and some of the smaller creatures you run across.  This allows you to save your ammunition for some of the tougher zombies, and the bigger monsters you run into later.  I never came close to running out of ammunition by using the welder a lot early in the game when the creatures were weaker.
 Another good thing was the BEM-T3 scope, which you are given early in the game.  This device allows you to look at people, and tell if they are still human or have been affected by the Ark virus.  It also allows you to see through lockers, through plants to look for hidden doors, and also helps negate the bad camera angles you will suffer when going around corners. I would walk around a corner, and then pull out the scope to check down the hall, because you are then given a first person view, and can check for hiding creatures.
 Another bonus was an unlimited inventory, so you didn't have to stockpile weapons or health drinks, or anything else.  You were able to carry everything you picked up without having to fuss about whether or not you really needed to carry it at that time, and then run back somewhere to retrieve something you needed when getting to a certain door or area.  So, kudos to Jaleco for this fine first effort.  The story line might have been a bit weak, and all my questions about Ark and the motivations of some of the characters weren't answered, but overall, it was a good try, and the next time they might make a more polished, complete product.  I'm willing to wait and see.