Kartia: "The Word Of Fate" (recognized as Rebus in Japan), crams  fabulous innovation in one decent Strategy/RPG. Although Atlus has released  a few worthy games on the PlayStation console, Atlus begins to grow as a  company who'll soon promote their selves into a house-hold name. Like the  arising empire of Enix. Despite the humiliation from their most  embarrassing game, Eggs of Steel, Atlus is gaining momentum with their  not-notch RPGs.  Taking corresponding steps alike with Ogre Tactics and  my all time precious- Final Fantasy Tactics-, Kartia packs  charming  innovations. Sure, Kartia may not have the excellent job systems like FFT,  or any archers for the matter, yet it brings temples of innovations to bury  the burden. It has Phantoms. Once the player ons his PlayStation, the  player selects his  decision to accept the role of Toxe or Lacryma. Each  character has a totally different story process.  The niddy-griddy fun in  Kartia is concentrating on your arsenal of Phantoms. They are  paper-rock-scissors monsters.  All phantoms can be defeated by a specific  one and vise versa.  Phantoms play the most basic role.  During the game,  the player uses them to create elemental magic or specialize weapons.  Assembling the player's own infantry takes a critical job for victory or  instant death. The objectives in Kartia are alike with FFT's system. From  claiming the lives of your adversaries to escorting a vital character,  Kartia has the same fundamentals of any Strategy/RPG game.  What really  amazes, is the addition to disturb the environment. Players have the  opportunity to cut down trees down for a bridge and order a magician to  freeze a pool of water for walking.  Battling enemies on the vast  terrain is exciting, but the game loses some valuable points from being  completely linear. Gladly, there is another innovation that covers that  burden as well, the 2P Mode. Final Fantasy Tactics could have been truly  flawless if Square decided to include the 2P Mode. Kartia takes  Strategy/RPGs deeper. The 2P Mode allows two players to battle their armies  on saved data. Players can also trade items.  The ONLY downslope going  for Kartia is the abrupt end.  Kartia is an engrossing story. With  a tale like this, why not bring an anime in the movie industry?  Both  characters have dissimilar story progressions. Loxe is a young boy who  enjoys the elegance of swordplay a bit too much. Lacryma is an incredibly  robust Shrine Knight. It's up to these two heroes to protect the land from  barbaric rebels. Heroes fighting the bad rebels may sound dull and boring,  but once the backstabs roll in, there's no way the player can let the  controller free again. Someone, anyone, make Kartia an anime!  Graphically Kartia is a 3D splendor. The vibrant colors hold an artistic  environment. When a person speaks, a dialogue box is set above the screen  and the character's faces appear. At the FMV department, the videos are  dark, and morbid that triumphantly stimulates your daily dose of eye-candy.  Music thrives to hand the player spectacular soundings.  The beats can  really adjure you in an edge of your seat thrill.  Atlus has succeeded to  create a game that goes beyond the redundant  RPGs today.  Don't be fooled  by Kartia's age or lack of popularity. This is a solid buy.  FFT fans, run-  kill only if necessary- to grab a hold of this monster.  2P mode shines and  awaits for your arrival. In return for your forty bucks you'll get the  chance to trade items with a friend, and get sucked into a extremely  addictive play!