Winaback: Covert Operations was released for the Nintendo 64 in 1999 and while it wasn't as popular as other games, it soon had a cult following for the simple fact that it's a good Metal Gear Solid clone. It borrows all the elements that made the PS1 hit title great while putting its own spin on the "terrorists threaten to blow up the world" story. There's no denying where the developers of the game looked for inspiration and for the most part, it pays off.

You take control of Jean-Luc, a member of a SWAT-like military group out to stop a terrorist organization from using a powerful satellite to destroy the world. From there the story plays out similar to that of Metal Gear Solid except it's not as complicated (complete with a twist at the end.) You have access to a limited group of weapons that includes a pistol, shotgun and assault rifle. Later on, you'll be able to pick up a silencer, rocket launcher and ammunition packs to increase the ammo you can carry. You go from point A to point B in every stage  shooting soldiers, hitting switches, destroying laser beam sensors and acquiring keys for unlocking doors. Every so often, you'll face off against bosses which requires you to figure out the best way to beat them. To save your progress, you'll need to use a memory pack as this is a pretty long game. Beat the game on all difficulty levels and you unlock extra modes, characters for the multi-player section and game modifiers. If you have some friends, you can try out the multi-player mode with them for up to 4 players.

The PROS: For what it brings to the table, it's a good game. While the story is not the most original, it's enough to get you into the game. The animation is decent, sound effects & music are good and the controls take some getting used but thanks to the game's tutorial mode, it isn't a problem that lasts long. It's a long game and beating it on all the difficulty levels to unlock the extra content gives plenty of incentive. While playing it on easy mode gets you used to how the game works, normal and hard modes bump up the difficulty so it will give you a challenge.

The CONS: The graphics are decent but could have benefited from using the expansion pack. Instead, they are basic but because of the action, you won't pay attention to it at first. The camera is your worst enemy throughout the entire game. You're in total control of it which means you must turn it left or right whenever you face off against enemies and traps. The camera doesn't turn on its own and if you're not careful, you'll walk into enemy fire/laser beam traps and won't see it coming. You get used to it but it's a real chore. The multi-player mode is fun for quick matches but isn't as fleshed out like the multi-player mode in Goldeneye 007 or Perfect Dark. Also, you do a lot of backtracking; many times you will walk through sections already cleared so repetition sets in every so often. While there are 32 stages altogether (including boss encounters), it is spread out through 4 areas so don't expect a lot of variety in the background.

Winback was a good game and I find it is still worth taking out my console and playing it. If you can overlook its flaws, you may very well end up enjoying the game as much as those who tried it. It's the closest thing to getting a Metal Gear Solid-ish game on the Nintendo 64 and one of the few stealth action games available for it. Amazon is selling it brand new and for cheap so go ahead; it won't cost you much.