I really enjoyed playing AMBER.  The graphics are good, the sound effects are great, and the storyline dealing with paranormal research makes the most of what draws me to the adventure genre.
To have the best experience with this game, you really need to be patient and pay more attention to exploring your surroundings rather than just want to get through it.  There were several times that I missed necessary items or possibilitites for interaction the first time through a room.  But there are no really difficult puzzles, so rather than run to a walkthrough if you can't find something it's a good idea to just keep looking.  Everything is pretty much in the open.  Also, there are a number of optional activities that a walkthrough might not tell you about, but that it would be a shame to miss.  This is one of those games where the rule is, pick up everything you can and interact with everything you can.  Doing so can only heighten your experience.
The first half of the game is truly spooky, with numerous close encounters of the ectoplasmic kind and lots of paranormal activity showing up on your equipment.  One such encounter actually made my heart stop for a minute, even though I was expecting it.  Another that I wasn't expecting made me afraid to go back to the game for a minute.  The atmosphere of weirdness is aided by the sound effects which are used subtly and with great skill.  You're always thinking you're about to stumble on something unexpected and sometimes you do.  Nothing is very grotesque or frightening in and of itself, but the atmosphere of suspense makes even the ordinary seem hair-raising.
The second half of the game is much quieter.  Entering the three actual ghost "worlds" is almost mundane and somewhat anticlimactic.  When things are spooky, it's more because you're experiencing the reality of a person who is himself creepy, than because the actual events are scary.  I found this both a disappointment and a relief, after the excitement of the initial half of the game.
AMBER is a slide show game in the style of MYST, but I didn't miss the 3-d presentation or 360 degree vision of more recent games.  Navigation was generally pretty easy, although there were one or two places where I had a hard time getting to where I wanted to go.  One ghost world utilised a special diagonal cursor that was very hard to understand;  another featured a view of the world that was pretty distorted (in more ways than one).  Again, in these spots patience was necessary.  Also, the screen size is small.  Setting my monitor to 640 X 480 helped some, but I, at least, found I had to do that manually before playing;  the game doesn't do it for you as most do.
My main complaint with AMBER is that it was too short (I finished it in under 10 hours).  You spent a lot of time setting up, and very little actually accomplishing anything.  Also, the few real puzzles were very easy.  Sometimes I felt like I had barely begun to look at them before I accidentally solved them.  The ending was also a little abrupt.  I wanted more.
If you like games with lots of atmosphere, you will probably like AMBER.  If you like lots of challenging puzzles, you might not.  Still, at under ten bucks it's a worthwhile way to spend a rainy afternoon or two.