Snowboarding games are a dime a dozen these days, so it's nice when a good one comes along. Although it's rare to see a snowboarding game play out like Mario Kart, it makes for a really fun game. You play as one of 6 grade school children, collect items and weapons, knock off enemies with these items and weapons, do tricks, and get money while trying to win the race. Even though the childish characters may intimidate many who see this game, this still is a great game. The game looks pretty nice for N64 standards, the controls are tight, the sounds are good and the music is very catchy. This game also uses great ideas, such as saving money to upgrade your snowboard or playing on really wacky (but really enjoyable) courses. In fact, some of the courses have no snow on them! But that's the fun of this game: getting to snowboard down unimaginable terrain, while at the same time, hitting your opponents with pie-pans, bombs, rocks and other items. It releases some kind of childhood glee deep in your brain that I just can't explain. But it's not all fun and games though. There are some problems. First, is the game's image. Many are really going to be turned off by the childish nature of this game, though I liked it so much, I didn't care. The biggest problem is that you need a Conroller Pak to save your data. The real gripes here is that there is no battery backed memory option along with the Controller Pak use and since the game requires 121 of the 123 pages in the Controller Pak, you'll need to spend more money getting more Controller Paks if you have other games that require it also (Mystical Ninja starring Goemon, Rugrats In Paris) or games where you want to save data for safe keeping (Wave Race 64, Perfect Dark). But even with these issues, the game is still really fun and worth playing. If you like it and still want more, try its sequel, Snowboard Kids 2. But try the original first to see if you like the style of play. I'll bet dollars to donuts that you'll enjoy it, though. Great Job, Atlus.