Grim Fandango is best described as a detective story in the Film Noir tradition.  The hero of the piece, Manny Calavera, evokes the private eye of the 1940's or '50's melodrama whose story begins with a dame walking  into his office and who quickly finds himself enmeshed in a vast and  corrupt conspiracy which may do him in. The difference here is that at the  beginning of this story, Manny is already dead, and the events transpire in  the Land of the Dead, the place where, according to Mexican folklore,  departed souls go to embark on their journey to the hereafter.
Blending  Mexican folk mythology with the Film Noir genre, Grim Fandango is  ultimately respectful of both traditions, and the striking art design is in  keeping with this approach, combining Art Deco and pre-Columbian elements.  The dialogue, refreshingly witty and literate, draws the player in to the  characters and the story, as does the varied musical score, which includes  Mexican folk melodies.
The characters are for the most part vividly  drawn, and due to the superb performances by the voice talent (particularly  Tony Plana as Manny and Maria Canals as Meche) are fresh despite their  mostly formula roles. One character which may provoke mixed reactions is  that of Glottis, Manny's driver. A cartoonish, Jar Jar Binks-like figure,  Glottis skews the story in a younger direction (at odds with the mild  epithets employed by other characters in a few instances), and while my  children liked Glottis, I expect most players will find him either  endearing or irritating.
The interface in this game is unusual. Rather  than pointing and clicking with a mouse, the player controls Manny's  movements with the arrow keys, waiting to see Manny's head turn to an  object he becomes interested in and clicking "enter" to see what  happens. This approach takes some getting used to, and can be cumbersome at  times, but it places Manny at the center of the action and increases the  player's identification with Manny, ultimately serving the story.
The  puzzles, many of which are multi-step, involve crafting Rube Goldberg  solutions to various problems. Some of the solutions are thoroughly  counterintuitive (I won't give anything away, but let's just say that  objects such as balloons or a crystal paperweight are employed in bizarre  ways), and are best solved through aggressive trial and error.  Clues may  pop up from time to time to expedite this sometimes tedious process. That  aside, the Lucasarts team, especially writer Tim Schafer, deserve high  praise for this highly original and literate adventure.