In recent memory, strategy guides have become less of a necessity and more of a collector's item.  For every game nowadays there is a guide to accompany it.  Sometimes there's a collector's edition guide as well.  For collector's these are sometimes a lot of fun.  For Zelda fans that enjoy Zelda lore this collection is a fantastic buy.  There is a limited number in print and it's simply amazing to behold.  It's great packaging and actually has things in there specifically for collectors.

Before I begin I want to stress that this review won't be going into the content of each guide.  With the exception of the Skyward Sword guide, each of these guides is exactly the same as their standard (and separately released) collector's edition counterpart.  The reason Skyward Sword is not the same is because this copy was revised and expanded upon.  Aside from that, the other five guides are largely unchanged from their original releases.  There are subtle differences but nothing that greatly changes the actual content in the guide.

To begin, the guides come packaged in a box that looks like a chest.  When you open it up there are six hardbound guides in there.  The covers all look very similar.  Each one having an embossed Hyrule symbol on them.  The covers and the borders are different on each guide.  The six guides included are for Twilight Princess, Phantom Hourglass, Spirit Tracks, Ocarina of Time 3D, Skyward Sword and the Windwaker HD.  All the guides have gold leaf pages that are shiny when looking at them from the side.

There are a couple of things to note about the guides themselves.  The first is that it seems just a little strange that the guides themselves are not actually individually shrink wrapped.  This seems a little odd.  It's not that big of a deal but when you open the packaging they're already loose.  Considering each original release came shrink wrapped it's a little strange.  Perhaps the thing that some consumers might mind is that none of these guides come with their respective extras.  Anything that was considered a bonus for getting the collector's edition guide isn't here.  Likewise, when this particular collection was announced, The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds simply wasn't planned for the package.  So anyone hoping this guide comes with the collection are out of luck.  That's no big deal.

There are also a couple of things to note here about only a couple of guides.  The first and most obvious is the Ocarina of Time 3D guide.  Prima NEVER actually released a hardcover edition of this guide.  Ever.  This is the first time that Ocarina of Time 3D players will get to grab this guide in hardcover.  Originally the guide was only in paperback.  This makes the collector's value certainly worthwhile as it means that the guide will have much more limited hardcover run than all the other guides here.  This boxset is more or less your only chance to get it.

The second thing of note is that the Skyward Sword guide included here is NOT the same as the one originally published.  It has been revised and expanded.  Even the layout is very different from the original guide itself.  It has been revised and expanded by over 100 pages.  It is almost a completely new guide from the original one that was released.  So yes, this one too is a rarity because you won't have much luck finding it outside of this particular box set.

There are a couple of subtle differences between some guides and the originals.  Most notably is the Ocarina of Time 3D guide.  The original guide was around 224 pages and written in three columns.  Here it's 288 pages and is written in two columns.  It's a lot easier to read and a lot cleaner as a result.  Much of the text isn't so cramped.  Some moments in the Ocarina of Time 3D guide pop out a lot easier.  It just looks better and more organized overall.  The Legendary Checklist in the Ocarina of Time Guide is also better looking.  The tables are easier to read and easier on the eyes.  Likewise, the Legendary Checklist in the Twilight Princess Guide is A LOT easier to read and A LOT less cramped.  In the original guide the entire checklist was on a single page with just the location.  Here it's expanded to be in a table format, the font is bigger and it now lets you know your first chance to complete it as well as telling you what's required.  The Phantom Hourglass and Spirit Tracks guides are virtually unchanged from their initial releases.  The Windwaker HD is pretty much the same as well.  So for those wondering about whether or not they've changed some things from the original guides, the answer is yes.  Quite simply put some of them are a tad easier to read.

The set also came with a few bonuses of note.  The first and probably most valuable of all, is that you get a certificate of authentication from Eijo Aonuma that is signed and numbered.  The second is a laser etched metallic bookmark.  For collectors this package is a pretty sweet deal.  It's invaluable.  The only thing I wish we could've gotten would have been to actually get all the extras the guides themselves actually came with.  It is more or less the only thing I feel is missing and keeping it from being a complete package.  Part of what made the guides collector's editions aside from the hardcovers was actually getting little bonuses that didn't come with the guide otherwise.

Nevertheless, for the fan of Zelda this is a good buy.  But let's be clear.  If you are buying this, chances are it is probably not to actually utilize the guides themselves.  After all, many of the games these guides are for have been out for a while and, truthfully, you could just buy them on their own if you really wanted them for strategy.  They are a collector's item.  And it is certainly a nice one.