I have been looking forward to receiving this set since I learned about and pre-ordered it back in August. I am a huge Zelda fan and always wanted to get my hands on the strategy guides, but never seemed to get around to buying them when they first released and, over time, they became very expensive. This works out great because we can get all of the Collector's Edition guides, plus one never released and only available in this set (Ocarina of Time) for a great price - each guide ends up being less than $20 each not including the packaging.

As other have said, the packaging is wonderful. The treasure chest box is better quality than I had anticipated and the gold, metal etched bookmark is gorgeous! The actual shipping packaging was great, as well - very well protected with lots of foam so it arrived in pristine shape.

The guides themselves are gorgeous! Great detail and amazing artwork. I also love how the paper edges are golden - it gives it a very classy look. I have yet to actually read through them, let alone use them, so I can't say how accurate and useful they are, but I am sure the do their job and then some. I was very concerned about the Skyward Sword guide because the reviews for the original version were absolutely terrible. Fortunately, however, I read that it has been updated to meet the quality of all of the other guides, so that was a huge sigh of relief.

I do have a few gripes for this set, though. They are quite minor in the grand scheme of things, so it didn't kill it for me too much - they are just things I wish they would have included.

First, I am very disappointed that no guides were made for the older Zelda games, i.e. Zelda I and II for NES, Link to the Past for SNES, LInk's Awakening for Gameboy, etc. I wouldn't even mind if they threw several games into one or two books to make it more efficient - it would just have been nice to have guides for every Zelda game in one set.

Second, I was disappointed they didn't leave an empty slot for A Link Between Worlds. They've had this planned for a while and have had to have known the game was coming out the same time as this, as well as the collector's edition guide. Not a huge deal, but again... would have been a nice consideration.

Third (and this is just something I would have thought to be cool - not dinging this set at all for not doing it) it would have been INCREDIBLE if they had some sort of audio device inside that makes the chest opening music from say Ocarina of Time when you open it - similar to when you open a greeting card with pre-recorded messages. Perhaps someday I will figure out how to do it myself - until then I will have to just sing the tune myself :)

Finally, I am sad that some of the bonus content that came with the guides when they were originally released weren't included. I will be honest, I don't know which guides came with what, but I have seen others complain about this, stating that Twilight Princess in particular came with a few goodies.

Overall, I am very happy with this set. For Zelda fans, it is a must buy especially if you don't own many or any of these guides already. Thanks for reading!