I must admit: This game hasn't aged too well; the N64 was well known for having the cleanest looking polygons. Despite this, this game isn't lacking in pure fun and its one of the best multiplayer experiences on the system.I own Rock Band 4 for Xbox One and I learned that you can add more vocals to tracks.  I saw that this was cheaply priced and has a high rate of success from other buyers.

though the mic does work, and had no problems with utilizing the tambourine my only real complaint is that the USB Cable length is too short when compared to my original Rock Band Mic (from RB1).

I fixed the problem by adding a usb extension cable to each mic.  This added an extra $5 cost per mic and gave me 3ft.  For 6ft it would have been a $5.50 increase and for 9ft, $5.80.  Even with the extensions you're still looking at a cost savings over the "Rock Band" mic of $10"Turok 2: Seeds of Evil" has a lot to love about it.  The music rocks.  The graphics are still quite good for N64 standards (especially if you have the Expansion Pak).  It controls just fine (get used to the C-button controls).  There's some good multiplayer.  It's a bloody, gory mess.  And the weapons are freaking awesome (just wait till you see the Cerebral Bore).

But there's a big problem with it: DESIGN

I'm not talking about the art direction or graphical look.  "Turok 2" is still a good-looking game with gruesome enemies and solid lighting effects.  But these levels are confusing as all hell, with the exception of the 1st one.  If we had a better story to go along with it, then maybe there'd be a reason to plow through.  But for whatever reason, Acclaim & Iguana decided to force the player to scour every inch of the 6 levels, and if you're stuck, you're stuck for good.

You will be required to light beacons, find keys, and rescue children.  Again, Level 1 isn't so bad, but Levels 2-6 are gonna be a pain in the butt if you get lost.  The map you're given sucks.  And to make matters worse, you can't leave or quit levels once you've selected them.

But if you're not too proud to grab a strategy guide or go online, then "Turok 2" will be more fun than perhaps some of us had back in 2000.  The combat is still a blast (although the final Primegen boss is impossible without cheat codes).  The presentation is sharp.  And the Turok world is still very unique from today's overload of military/war shooters.

"Turok 2" was one of the N64's most critically-acclaimed titles for the console, rightfully so.  But be warned, it'll test your gaming logic more than you expect.This game is really fun, but I honestly enjoyed Crash Team Racing for the PlayStation a lot more. One thing that annoys me about this game is that you can't look behind you. I pressed every button and I can't get the camera to face behind the racer and this makes it impossible to shoot green turtle shells from behind without proper aiming. So nine out of ten times, I'm going to miss my target. How did Nintendo screw up this badly. And the racers are pre-rendered much like how Donkey Kong and Diddy Kong were in Donkey Kong Country for the SNES. I was wondering why wasn't it computer generated like Super Mario 64? It's still a nice little game, a little pricey, but still nice to have in your N64 collection.The movie "Goldeneye" was a box-office hit and now it comes to nintendo. Every wonder how James Bond found Natalia, how Xenia died, or how Bond killed Trevalyn. Now you get to do it yourself. You travel to Siberia to recover blueprints, go on a battleship to save hostages, launch a space shuttle, and shoot all the bad guys you want with over 30 weapons from Gernades, lasers, all handguns, machine guns and rocket and nuclear bombs. Try out the game to see what you would do if you were Bond. Here's your chance to be 007.Love this game.  So much fun.  It is even better with the cheats.  One of the best games for the N64.  I can play this for hours apon hours.  I love this game.This is a must-have for your N64.  It is fun to play by yourself, but the most fun is when you play with 1-3 friends.  :)  The graphics are not the greatest, but it usually doesn't affect the gameplay.  A classic N64 game.I have to be honest: Normally, I'm not into these first person shooter games.  They're just so clunky, most of the time you can't tell where you're going, you don't know if an enemy is behind you, (Or at times even in front of you, if you get a weird camera angle) and plus might I add that you can't see your character, which does not really, (For me, most of the time) give that whole imaginative feel that you ARE that character.
  Well, Goldeneye is an excellent and well made game.
  I don't know why people complain about the graphics...it's actually kind of cool, and plus the enemies in this game are from head to toes so detailed that you think they're real.  The scientists in the facility level are well detailed, and most all the characters are animated incredibly.
  Besides, you take on the role of James Bond.  James Bond! The hero that defined action! This game is not dull, and at times it is so scary when you are overswarmed by a bunch of enemies in one small room.
  The multiplayer mode, is, of course, wonderful.  You can choose from power weapons, sniper rifels, Dostovals, Shotguns, PP7's, proximity mines, hand grenades, laser guns, and basicly everything else that you can think of.  It is an entertaining game, and it is well worth the money.
  The camera angles rock.  you never get lost.
  So, why didn't I give this game Five stars?  Read below and find out.

  THE BADS OF THE GAME
  There are some major glitches.  You can see your enemies literally walk through walls, not completely, but almost there.
  At times the doors, when I command it to open with the B button, it still won't open, even if I already DID get an access card for the door in the first place.  The reason behind that is the fact that an enemy is probably trying to open the door as well, but how am I supposed to know that? So, I stand back, the enemy comes in, and oh, guess what, it turns out that there isn't just one of them, there's thirty, so they all shoot at me, and I die.  You can easily die in this game just due to glitches, which makes it very difficult and frustrating.
  If you forget one thing on a mission, just one small thing which most of the time has nothing to do with the story, then you have to start the whole mission over again.  You don't just do the thing you forgot, either, you have to do all the things that you did do, as well as the things you did not.
  The game is predictible, due to the fact that it follows the movie, although when it does not follow the movie, (Which it does a lot) then it gets kind of dissapointing because what you expected did not happen.
  The puzzles can be frustrating.  I'm still trying to figure out how to get the bottling room on the facility level.
  The game is also very gory.  I don't know why they gave this game a TEEN rating instead of a mature...it should of been rated mature.

  Now, for the GOODS of this game.
  GOODS
  Use an incredibly large arsenal of weaponry and more weaponry...prepare to save the world, it's gonna be a rough ride.
  It follows the movie really well, (Most of the time, anyways) And if you're a big fan of james bond you will really enjoy this game.  Even if you aren't you'll still enjoy it.
  You play the role of james Bond, which is worth it within itself.
  This game is the greatest First person shooter game for the N64.  The controls aren't so difficult that you'll get lost and forget which buttons to use while you're losing, but they are simple and easy and at the same time fun.  And even if you don't like the controls, you can decide which buttons you want for which ones the controller screen.
  There's nothing that you can't shoot or destroy.
  The cheats are FUNNY!  I mean, honestly, try the invisibility mode. You can shoot a near bye dashboard when a Gaurd is near, and that gaurd will start freaking out and look around to see who did that.  This makes the game easier also, and the invincibility mode is good too, although I tried and realized that you can't have the invisibility mode and invincibility at the same time.  You can also make the bad guys heads small and stuff, which is really funny to see.
  The way that the characters are animated are almost identicle to the characters in the movie...they look exactly like the actors.
  At the end of every level, it tells you how many kills you did, how many limb shots, how many head shots, and how many body shots you had.
  The artificial intelligence with the badguys aren't all that challenging, but when there's a whole crowd of them, watch out!
  This game is excellent.  Did I mention that it's excellent? Let me repeat it again: This game is excellent! Excellent I tell you, excellent!I got this game because every person said it was the best game ever. For 1998 it is, but now it's just good. Not as good as wind waker or twilight princess. The level design is good. Parts are 3d, others are resident evil camera. In short it works okay, but I screwed up many times becaus of it. the graphics were good several years ago, but now they are muddy and polygonal. Aside from that, it's zelda. Nothing new. If you buy it, don't expect it to live up to all the hype.Good graphocs, multiplayer mayhem, secret levels of which the first is kind of like a part of the movie "Moonraker" (earn this level by beating the game on secret agent) and the second of which is where you have to beat Baron Sameidei with the Golden Gun (earn this level by beating the game on OOagent). The game is not overly gory. If you shoot someone a red patch appears on there clothes, but it is hard to see on most of the 3d characters. With twenty levels in all and ten or so multiplayer areanas it is no wonder this game was voted game of the year in "Nintendo Power" magazine. The music is excellent and can really get you excited and it can also get you scared. The AI is pretty dumb on the agent setting, it develops about a fifty percent intelligence upgrade on secret agent setting, and on OOagent you had better find some cover! The game can take a while to beat if you want to get all the secret levels and secret codes for the game by beating the main game missions in a certain time with all of the objectives met. Have and watch out!This mario kart changed all mario karts in the future. This is the first mario kart that has mini games and computer generated graphics. I mean the 64 as u can tell the graphics have changed allot from the snes. This mario kart has many more features and great graphics. The sound is great also. If i had a choice of which mario kart to have for free if i did not have any of them it would be this one. I don't know why but for some reason this one is really fun. It has a great multiplayer, especially on mini games.I liked it and had fun with it, played for a while and got my money's worth.  You can certainly go further than I did but I got frustrated with the fact that here we are in this new start and still taking from the earth rather than living with it. Better than simcity in that respect and maybe the best we could hope for.Mario Kart 64 is one of that games that is hard to find, but that effort has a very good reward, 'cuz this is one o'that games that began the real 4-player madness (you know...), it's also considered as one of the best Mario Kart games ever (better than Mario Kart: Double Dash!!, and maybe as good as Mario Kart Wii). The only thing that I didn't give the 5/5 is that this game is a bit tedious. Yes, I know that graphics... forget about the graphics, 'cuz first, it's the N64, and second, graphics are not important in this game that focus on fun. If you have a 64, and you don't have already MK64, you must find it now! Everybody with a 64 must have this crazy great game! (don't forget four controllers for the real madness).Goldeneye has to be one of the best multiplayer games ever.  I still play this game against friends even though i have a ps2 now.  The graphics are still ok to look at, even though i have seen far better on dc and ps2. It has excellant replay value and is very challenging to defeat on all difficulty settings.  Pick this up if you want the best fps on n64.When I had this game, I did not stop playing until I got to winning the game. It's fun for awhile to throw objects at people that are racing against you. It has a four player mode, which is not bad, but sometimes gets a little confusing when you're watching other people racing. The split screen should never be included. Although, that it is which is easy to get distracted. But Mario Kart is fun and it should be in one of the hand-held games, too. I wouldn't mind playing this. Oh, I have the one on Gameboy Advance, which is cool but not like the one from Nintendo 64. Now, that confused me.This was a great replacement mic for RockBand. We always had a hard time with the tapping portion of the game with OEM. This picked up the taps perfectly for that 100% score while singing! More cowbell anyone?I'd recommend buying it used to save some money.  The tracks are nice and the game play is all right.  It's just not the same as playstation racing games though.Mario Kart: 64.  It is such an improvement from the Super Nintendo version.  The graphics are quite detailed in comparison to the other 64 games out.  I would say, above average.  However, the graphics is not what sets this game off above the others.  It is the enjoyment level!
Not only is it fun to compete with others like your family, friends, or even the computer player (AI) but it's got a great Grand Prix mode in which you can compete for a Gold Cup.  Get all gold Cups and you gain a bonus.
The only complaint I have about this game, (reason why I gave it a four instead of a 5) is that the AI are too smart.  Races sometimes seem to be unfair.  You throw items at them, knock them to the side, speed ahead of them and it seems like whatever you do, it doesn't matter.  This can be frustrating.  Though the controls are WAY improved over the Super Nintendo version, it still is hard to control the carts (karts) around corners.
Overall, this is an addicting game.
Have a Super Nintendo? Buy Mario Kart for Super Nintendo
Have a Gamecube? Definetely buy Mario Kart: Double Dash for Gamecube.
And finally, if you have a N64, Mario Kart 64 is one to deeply considerThis game is defanitly worth the time and money.(...)You can choose from either mario grand prix,VS.,battle,or time trial.

 In mario grand prix you choose from a wide selection of characters wich one you want to be. You Can pick from four different cups,each with four different race tracks. Then it's time to race as you play against the 7 other characters. Up to 4 people can play mario grand prix.
 In VS.,you play against one computer character or 2 family members or friends. You can choose any course is the game. Up to 3 can play VS.

 In the battle mode up to four can play. You get 3 balloons and the other player(s) try to pop them. The last one standing wins. Up to 4 can play battle mode.
 Finally,in time trial only one person plays. You can choose any course,you try to make a good time and if you want,you can try to beat it. Only one player can do time trial.

 Mario Kart is a Great game and if you have a N64,GET IT!I got this game in '97 and it is still fun to play. Unlike the original Mario Kart for the SNES or the new Mario Kart Super Circuit for the GBA (both of these games you have to use a control pad to drive)you can use the control stick on the N64 controller ot drive your go-kart which is a hundred times easier than a control pad. The game is easy in the begining, but it hets much harder as you get closer to finishing it. The graphics are spectacular, and so is the music. In one course you can go off roading and drive around and look at Princess Toadstool's castle form Super Mario 64! The tracks are cleverly designed and all to often you'll find yourselft barely winning or completing a race. The game does offer a good challenge with eight drivers to choose from which onclude the following and their speed: Mario average, Luigi average, Peach average, Toad fast, Yoshi fast, Donkey Kong slow, Wario slow, Bowser slow. The speeds come to play in the later levels where only Toad and Yoshi are your best bet for first place. Again with the GBA and the Gamecube (which launched today as I am writing this) Mario Kart 64 is a must have for N64 owners who can't get the Gamecube or the GBA for now. Also each character has his or her own course and the game has race and battle multiplayer modes where in the battle mode each racer has three balloons arround his or her go-kart and everyone has to try to knock out everyones balloons. Have fun!Ahhhh! I love this game! It's so great. My friend gave it to me and I fell in love with it fast! I played Mario Kart for the SNES and thought it was the best thing since sliced bread. When I found out Mario Kart was for N64, I went bezerk. This was the first game to my N64 collection. You choose between 8 characters. You can get over 10 different powerups, including the legendary star which makes you invincible, banana peels which make opponents skid out of control, lightning bolts which makes characters small so you can smush them, mushrooms that boost your engine, and 3 kinds of shells. A green shell will go and bounce off anything, A red shell will do its best to find a character and smash them, and a spike shell with automatically find the player in 1st place and destroy them without fault. The reason it is 4 stars is because they didn't go the extra mile. If you play 1 or 2 player(s) you can do a Grand Prix, but not with 3 or 4. In player 1 mode you cant do a battle or do a vs. with the CPU. Battle only contains 4 tracks. I guess what i'm trying to say is that i wish it was more open. Taking shortcuts won't work because Lukita drags you back when your at the top of the mountain. This game would be the best if you were allowed to do more.Graphics: 9/10 - Eye-catching, bold and pretty, Mario Kart 64's graphics are fulfilling and nice to look at.
Sound: 8/10 - Lots of bells, whistles, engines and da-da's in this game. They are just small sound, but bring out some sort of livelihood.
Value: 8/10 - Even though I don't have a Nintendo 64, if I did, I would probably buy this game because it is lots of fun to play. It can also be very strategic at times, which is good for a racing car game.
Overall: 8/10 - Nothing too memorable, but it's delightfully entertaining to play when you are actually using the controls. Mario Kart 64 gives you things to do and stuff to work out. It's the first game I played on Nintendo 64 and as far as I'm concerned, it's well worth the time.When I first heard of a Mario Kart game comming out for Nintendo 64 I was overjoyed to realize that they would keep up on such an awesome Super  Nintendo game.  To my amazment, the game came to the 64 with nothing but  crisp graphics and pre-rendered characters abound.  However, where there  comes the good side of all this, there is a bad side; some of the  characters in the game, in fact, cheat to win.  Now I'm not sure why this  little feature was allowed, perhaps to make it more challenging or give us  more reason to throw the controller at the wall when Mario suddenly jumps  out in front of you.  However, you can master there cheating ways by  learning how to outwit them at their own game.  Find shortcuts and other  things that can aid you in your race for the finish.  From cheating to  graphics and music I must say that the graphics are quite impressive for  such a game made so early on.  The music is also amazing, with hummable  tunes that will get you in the mood to race, or the mood to hit Wario off  the side of a moutain just to here him scream.  The sure thing to do now is  to buy the game, because it is a classic and always will be.Great game, but Perfect Dark is WAY better. If you really like Bond or you can find this game cheap somewhere you might want to pick it up, but if you're just looking for a good first person shooter or multiplayer game skip it and get Perfect Dark instead.There isn't much you can say that is bad with this game. For it's time it  had excellent graphics, excellent game play and sound. This game is truly one in a million that I am sure any person can enjoy, BUT, if your a Zelda fan (and have played all if not most games from the beginning) you'll notice some of the things in OOT are recycled. For example, the Kakariko town music is completely recycled from Zelda: A Link to the Past. In fact this game borrows a lot from Zelda: A Link to the Past, though they do manage to change some things in OOT here and there. Still for what it's worth Zelda: OOT is still a pretty darn good game, though I think the story should have been more original.Works well for the most part, there has been two times were it was making this static noise but once we unplugged it and then replugged it in is had been ok.I got this on the GameCube Collector's edition and really, it's confusing how they DIDN'T make this the best game of 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. They DID make it the best game of 1998 and 1999 but anyways, there's a master quest version out there for GameCube. The sites are beautiful. And when u get inside the Deku Tree, let the action/fantasy begin!the game was awesome. Zelda has always been an addicting, mindblowing, and fun game. Many people like it. The game features a great 3d world in which there is night and day. the game also has many different enemies and dungeons and the famous ocarina where you can play different tunes that you have learned. A really good game if you like action and adventure. The frustrating thing are the puzzles. they may take some time to solve. This is not why i gave the game 4 stars. I believe 5 stars means the game is perfect. and this game is not perfect.4 Stars because they like it and play it often enough so don't feel like money is wasted. I got them one each so they can multiplay with each other.A Good game comes along, entertaining millions of fans worldwide. Then, a year later another good game comes along and steals the fisrt ones place. Ever since the beginning of game history, every good game that came out eventually got replaced by a better game the next year. Since Sept. 98, that cycle has been broken, stopped by one game that never got replaced, even by it's sequals, nothing ever ended out better than Zelda: Ovarina of Time. This game has revolutionized 3D gaming with its Z-Target system. It has enchanted and bewildered people with its magnificant storyline. It has taken the lives of thousands of people because of all the side-quests and collectible items in it. This game, I am predicting, will probably still rain supreme until the next system comes out (The one after gamecube). Its Z-Targeting system makes Link (the main character) look at an enemy, within this looking, he can circle around it in stategic patterns, accurately aim and strike the sword without missing and hitting air a yard away, and eaily and quickly dodge and backflip attacks. Many games, even nowadays, imitate this system, but fail to get it as correct and perfect as Zelda did/does. The storyline starts off telling of a magical forest with many never-growing children in it. All these children have one compainon fairy with them, except one boy, who does not. Right from hearing this setence in the game for the first time, you know your in for an adventurous, complicated yet slightly realistic storyline that will take your life for at least a month. And, this game has many, many side quests to do. There are 100 special spiders to defeat and get treasures with, 50 magic beans to be planted and give a passegeway to unaccesible areas, 25 heart pecies to collect to get a whole lot of health with, 15 masks to sell and play around with, 6 empty bottles to collect, a chicken to rais, and a huge trading sidequest that eventually leads to the possesion of the strongest weapon in the game. And much more. This game also has the perfect sound to it. The cheerfull, happy nature of the magical forest can be perfectly heard in it's background music. The adventurous, wide and far meadows of hyrule feild are perfectly expressed in it's background song. The fast-paced and action-packed lives of the desert theives is clearly expressed in it's song. Everywhere you turn in this game, you are greeted with a new background song that sings perfectly the attributes and unique features of that place, and transations perfectly with whatever the player/link might be doing in that place. This game's sequal, Majoras Mask, suffered horribly from the lack of this. And the prevous games in the series didn't meet this either. One more thing though, I'll admit it to the world, I hate the main Zelda theme. I'm glad its not in Ocarina of Time, In a game that so clearly stands out with it's music, one old sounding, bland song that dosnt fir well with hyrule feild wouv'dv ruined the experience of going out of kokiri forest and seeing it for the first time. Oh, I forot to mention that part too, the game has a perfect attidude for adventure in it. The places are designed very well, and when mixed in with the fabulous background music, gives a feeling of adventure that is completely unparelled to any other game, whatsoever. The first moment you walk out of the small and cramped kokiri forest, which actually used to seem so big, onto the your first grasses of hyrule feild, the sun will blind the screen for a moment, and as rising, reveal this spectacular, wide open feild with a tuft of trees, a monstor here and there, a ranch in the middle, and a clear blue sky with a brightly shining sun. Along the feild, a rise in elevation starts, as you climb the hill, you can see even more than you could before, a magestic, huge catsle, a winding clear blue river, a deep valley, a menancing volcanoe, and a huge lake, along with a tuft of trees, and a monstor here and there. As you travel to new places, you will feel almost the exact same feeling of adventure too, when seeing the towering windmill of Kakariko village above the small, humble houses of the village below it, with the perfect backgrond music for example. With this great feeling of adventure, huge enviroments, much huger than even the ones of nowaday games, and a great storyline and absolutly stunning soundtrack, Ocarina of Time is the Greatest game of all time, until a greater game will come out, wich will probably take a very very long time. If you don't already own this game (Shame on you), you should buy it immediatly, and while waiting for it to ship, download an emulated version. Now. Or else.This is still a great game to own, especialy if you missed it, but the graphics are dated.  If you have a GameCube, find a way to get it on there, and be happy you did.Works better than the rockband one. Although it might be because my rockband mic is as old as the second rockband.I was always a fan of Zelda when it first came out for the original Nintendo.  This is a fairly challenging game and I got bored with it quickly.  There isn't a lot of violence in this game but I think it's too advanced for kids to play.I'm not really a fan of N64.  I've always been more of a Playstation one fanatic, but Zelda is undoubtedly the best game that I have ever played.  If you think that Final Fantasy is good, then Zelda will make all of the installments in final fantasy look like junk.  There's only a couple of games on the nintendo N64 console that of which I liked, and that was Gauntlet Legends, Super Mario, and Donkey Kong.  But this game beats them all by a longshot.
  Then why did I give this game four stars instead of five?  The reason is because of the...problems listed below.
  1.  This game is HARD. I don't mean hard as in "Challenging" I'm talkin' about the whole you-possibly-will-never-ever-complete-the-game-without-a-strategy-guide hard.  The type of frustration which can rack your nerves big time.
  2.  There are a couple of glitches in the game. Example: I dare you to cut a sign with your sword.  Then play Zeldas lullaby with your ocerina of time.  The piece of sign which you had just sliced and diced will float.  That's just one of the glitches.
  3.  A little confusing, as far as the story goes.  It's better to play the game twice and see if you still understand it.
  4.  Replay value isn't very high.  Once you complete it, that's it.  It's so hard that I wouldn't ever want to go through the same frustration again, as to the fact that it was very difficult, even if you do know what you're doing.
  Okay, those were the bads.  Here are the goods.
  1.  The graphics are outstanding.  Wow.  The whole world of Termina reminds me of middle earth, only a lot less dark and ten times more exotic.
  2.  Once you beat the game, you feel satisfied with yourself.  Sure, this game is a little short, but it will still take you a long time to beat it, no matter how experienced you are with gaming.
  3. The plot is good and twists a lot.  I know that I said it was kind of confusing, and it kind of is, but it's still fun and the things that of which I did understood surprised me a lot.
It's sort of a mystery.
  4.  Fluint and absolutely excellent cut and FMW sequences.  It's true.  Like I said above, the graphics are wonderful.  And plus, exploring a small portion of Termina, which you do through out the game, is an experience that you don't wanna miss.
  5.  The bad guys are challenging, but not so challenging that you'll be ripping your hair out.  Once you beat them, you feel satisfied.
  6.  Highly addictive gameplay and plus you won't stop until you beat the game.
  But there's one major, and I mean MAJOR problem with this game.  This game is so addictiive that you might forget about everything else in life.  Remember your family?  You won't when you get this game, since you'l be wanting to play this game even more. A Anyways, get the game.Zelda "occarina of time" is much like the rest of the Zelda series... it doesn't disappoint! With really cool items to collect and using your songs/spells to warp around, the entire game offers whole new dimensions.
Things such as a horse you can call and run about the world, play carnival-like games to win power-ups, collect hard-to-find items such as the two-handed sword (which is better than the master sword, but you can't use a shield), magically powered arrows, and more!
This game is fairly easy to beat, but finding everything will take you much longer!This game was a tad on the easy side for the most part, but it was still great fun. One of the best Zelda games. Cool places to explore and neat items to find.This is overall one of the best Zelda games to date. It has lush environments and crisp sound effects and music. And the controls are super!  You have great control over link and the camera. The weapon system is good  as well. The story line leaves something to be desired though. It is a very  basic story: Ganondorf kidnaps Zelda, Link tries to save her by going to  the future. THAT'S IT! There are very few twists in the plot, if any, that  I can remember. Also, The game was way too short. I bought the game around  Thanksgiving and had it beaten by the 2nd or 3rd week of December. But,  putting those negatives aside, this is one hell of a game. (Oh yeah, the  Water Temple is TORTURE! )Fans of dedicated single-player "first person shooter" games who've never played this game before should definitely not pass it up.  HL takes an utterly unoriginal idea for either games or movies and crafts an utterly unstoppable gaming experience.  You play Gordon Freeman, who works in the bowels of an ultra-secret, underground research facility called "The Black Mesa".  (Having played the game yet I'm still not sure what's supposed to be going on in BM - it's what happens that matters.)  Oozing high-tech, the facility is host to another dimension when you/Freeman accidentally...do something that tears a whole in the fabric of our own - allowing beings from that other world to enter ours.

Now, if you think that these otherworldly denizens are peaceful beings intent on fostering cross-dimensional love, or that your fellow human beings will enter the Black Mesa unarmed intent on warmly welcoming these beings to our world, I'm afraid you've picked up the wrong game entirely.  For in the bowels of "Black Mesa" you'll confront howling dog things, flying crabs, alien-zombified versions of your colleagues, gigantic aliens that breathe fire through their fists, aliens that hang from ceilings (and entrap their victims using these vine-looking things) and squads of human special forces troops intent on killing everything that moves.  If the above attracts you because you think it may be the setting that elevates the nobility of the human existence, I should warn you to look elsewhere - for in "Half Life", you'll find yourself acting indiscriminately with a 9mm automatic, a submachine gun, grenades and (most regrettably of all) a nasty crowbar; you'll make few friends and find yourself (for the most part) alone and (not infrequently) exiled to ventilation ducts (again with the ducts!!) to avoid getting shot at by humans, or burned, bitten, bolted or tongue-bathed by aliens.  Complex problem solving skills (as much as marksmanship or bullet-saving) are crucial in this game - in which your enemies have above-average levels of AI.  There are unfortunately times when a level may be hung up by the failure to achieve some specific mission-goal, but this is on the whole a game in which the goals are sufficiently complex to make you feel cool for achieving them, yet not so complex as to be impossible to solve.  The settings are fantastic - from the vast to claustrophobic.  The game is long - uncommitted gamers may find it tedious - but the scope of design here rewards those who keep up with it.

I ran this game on an XP-equipped P4, with a 64MB AGP card, and had no problems (other than those involving the evil aliens and homicidal fellow humans).  Graphics and sound were smooth, and I suffered no CTD's.Alright already. It's a great game. Good AI, graphics. Runs well. Atmospheric. Great story and dialogue. Comedy. Blah, blah, blah.
Wait a minute. I got a complaint! That movie in the beginning. You can't escape  it. It just goes on and on babbling while you're stuck in a stupid tram  car. Sheesh. What a bore. That kind of nonsense will cost you a star.  Later, I went thru that ride a few times because I grew to like the eerie  understated music. Still, I think I should have been able to skip the intro  movie. Ruined the whole game for me.This game is definitely a hundred steps past Quake and others of its type. The AI is great. The evolving story is great. The fight against the Special Forces team is nerve wrackingly great. However, all this greatness became  stale, I never bothered to finish the game. The game just seemed to grow  old after a time. Maybe it needs something more to carry the player  through?Got here faster than I expected. Works great, that nostalgia kicked in and its just so wonderful. Not sure if it was noted before that there was a slight crack in the case. But nonetheless, awesome.This is my favorite game in the Crash Bandicoot series, but there are some things I really, really hate.

First, the graphics are great. This is one of the better looking games on the PS1 in my opinion, and it has aged fairly well.
The sound is excellent. The music is very enjoyable to listen to, and Crash isn't full of the 'tude that most video game mascots in the 90's had.

The gameplay and controls are really nice, however the jumping and spin hover physics can get a little wonky sometimes.

But what really chaps my ass are the non-platforming levels. This game tries to add some variety by including jetskiing, motorcycling, and flying levels. The control in the motorcycle levels is too tight and its hard to make sharp turns. The flying levels are extremely frustrating because the enemy fighters can drain half of your health in one go, and there are a limited number of health powerups.
Thankfully, these are only about 5 total of each of these levels.

This is one of the best Playstation games ever, and I recommend it to all owners.I used to play this game with my grandma. This is my favorite in the crash series and its exactly how I remember it. No complaints. Fast delivery.I had purchased quite a few games trying to find the one I remember. This game is fun and has a good roster of  characters. The moves are simple and the game is fun hours on end. A good way to relax after a tiring day.I am shocked and *very* pleased to report that Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped is a DRASTIC improvement over the original Crash Bandicoot.

As you may have heard, I am definitely NOT a fan of the very first Crash Bandicoot game released for the Sony Playstation in 1996.  I am, however, incredibly surprised to find that Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped is actually a really fun adventure game that may have been slightly overlooked at the time of its release because of the seemingly never-ending amount of wonderful games released for the Playstation in 1998.

Just so you know, I can't compare Warped to Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back because I haven't played that one.  I can only compare Warped to the original Crash Bandicoot.

Before playing Crash 3, I was almost CERTAIN that Crash Bandicoot was an overrated video game character because my first and only exposure to Crash was the very first game.  I thought for sure Crash Bandicoot was either a Mario or an Earthworm Jim rip-off, and didn't deserve all the attention it got.

For 10 years the original was the only Crash Bandicoot game I knew, and truth be told, it was a pretty average game because every stage featured basically the same uninspiring, repetitive island environment where the object was to run to the end of every stage collecting berries and smashing all the boxes as a way to earn more lives and receive a better overall percentage.

Simply put, Crash's very first outing was BORING.  It desperately needed variety.  Walking through island/jungle stages all the time can only provide so much fun before it inevitably gets boring.  The creators of Crash Bandicoot must have realized how boring this formula was because Warped does just the opposite- Warped features nothing BUT creativity.  In Warped every stage certainly does NOT have the same feel.  You will encounter something drastically different in every stage.  I like that.

The main objective of Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped is to find the purple gem found in each of the 25 stages of the game.  You HAVE to find all 25 purple gems otherwise the game won't allow you to fight the boss at the end of the world you're in.  For example, if you're in World 4, and can't find the purple gem in stage 3, you won't be allowed to face the boss at the end of that world.  You're stuck there until you find that darn purple gem.  Once you find the gem, and face and defeat the boss, you move on to the next world and repeat the process of collecting one purple gem per level and face the boss.  By the way, there's 5 worlds total and 5 stages in each world.  That comes to 25 stages total.

The amount of creativity that went into each of the 25 stages is simply incredible.  Unlike the first Crash Bandicoot game where you mainly just spin around through a jungle environment breaking boxes and jumping over cracks in the ground, Warped offers a LOT more in the way of variety.  In Warped you will encounter a few motorcycle racing stages (where you're required to get first place so you can receive the purple gem), a couple underwater stages (with VERY neat-looking backgrounds and deadly, puffy fish swimming about), a couple levels where you're steering an airplane and required to shoot down blimps and other airplanes, and not to mention those tricky, tiger-riding stages.

Oh, and I HAVE to mention the ultra-cool futuristic robot stages (which require near-perfect jumping patterns in order to complete).  The Jet Ski stages are really fun because you're located on top of the ocean and I guarantee you will have the time of your life jumping over ramps while avoiding those floating bombs.  Yup, it's awesome.  This is what makes Crash Bandicoot 3 so great- you won't know WHAT to expect until you enter the level.

Probably the worst thing about Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped is the fact that the game offers little in the way of challenge.  That's not to say the game is a cakewalk, either.  People who think Warped is an easy game are only comparing the challenge to the previous two Crash Bandicoot games.  If you compare Warped to say, I don't know, Spyro the Dragon, it's not such an easy game then.  It's definitely not a hard game either.  You WILL beat it.  I think the challange is comparable to Super Mario Bros. 1, the old NES classic.

The one thing I find challenging in Warped is the boss battle in World 3 where you're required to jump over bombs and laser beams heading in your direction.  This is one case where practice doesn't necessarily make perfect.  Also the second airplane stage can be a challenge if you don't bother shooting down the enemy planes.

One thing about Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped that IS incredibly easy is the object of finding those purple gems.  Most of the time you can NOT miss those gems, because you basically walk right into them on your way to reaching the end of the stage.  I mean, they are always RIGHT THERE.  RIGHT in front of you!

After you complete a stage, you can always go back to it and the computer will then give you a new option to complete the level in a certain amount of time.  Finishing the stage in a certain amount of time is actually quite hard.  It means you *really* have to take off running and not stop for a single moment to smash a box or spin-attack an enemy or ANYTHING.  It means you have to run run RUN!  Just so you know, completing the stages under a certain time is NOT a requirement.  It's entirely up to you if you'd like to accept the challenge.  I'm too much of a wimp to accept it, personally.

I like how you can save your game after you complete a stage.  You can actually complete one stage and go to the save room, if you wish.  Very convenient.  Oh, and get this- if during the middle of the game you decide you want to stop playing and shut off the Playstation, when you come back to the game later all the lives you collected up to that point will STILL be there!  I can't think of any other game that will save all the lives you collect.  Speaking of lives, they are *so easy* to find in Warped that you probably can collect up to 45 of them.  That's a lot, and you will probably need them because, even though the challenge ranges from low to medium, your first time through the game won't be THAT simple.

When Crash gets hit or smashed by something, I think it's funny the way he yells "whoa!"  It reminds me of that comedian Carrot Top.

The reason Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped isn't going to receive a 5-star rating from me is because of the same problem found in Spyro the Dragon- in the flying stages (in this case, the airplane stages) when you hit down on the D-pad the airplane flies UP, and hitting up will make the airplane go DOWN.  The game company made the direction the wrong way!  Oops.  At least when you steer the airplane left, it will go left.  The same with right.  Unfortunately, many game makers have made, and continue to make, the same mistake.  It needs to be corrected once and for all.

I realize having your airplane fly up when you hit "down" on the d-pad is an example of realism since that's more or less how REAL airplanes operate, but the thing is, Crash Bandicoot isn't supposed to be about realism since it's just a platform adventure game, and furthermore, it still doesn't change the fact that up and down are reversed.  This adds unncessary frustration and challenge in learning something that definitely feels backwards.

There's a toxic underwater stage in Donkey Kong Country 3 where the controls are reversed as a way to add challenge, and in my mind at least, having the controls reversed when trying to operate the airplane in this game definitely falls under the same category of unnecessary challenge.

I hope you buy this game for your Sony Playstation and experience a fun time.Crash Bandicoot: Warped = Orange, cool, creative, fuzzy, neat, great graphics, awesome design, introduction of secret levels for the series, power-ups, new bosses (including a big boss), and a new playable character.  These things are what make this a major improvement on the two previous games.  Crash 1 was a breakthrough, Crash 2 opened up a new world, and this game completely blows it all away.  This was how I got hooked on Crash Bandicoot.  I played this and loved it.  I recommend it.I should probably review some modern games while I'm here, but I've been kinda GTA'ed out recently, so I decided to put the PS3 away for a minute and bring up some old games from the past to see if they're just as fun as I remember them as.  One of those titles was WCW/nWo Revenge.

Released during WCW's heyday (and roughly a few months before WCW's eventual downfall), the game showcases an astoundingly deep roster for game that came out in the 90s.  A total of 63 WCW/nWo wrestlers were divided up into different factions:  WCW 1 (main-event wrestlers), WCW 2 (mid-card wrestlers), WCW 3 (opening match wrestlers), WCW 4 (Cruiserweight wrestlers), nWo White, nWo Red, and Raven's Flock.  Further, there were roughly a dozen or so other wrestlers listed under the imaginary EWF and DAW leagues included in the game; these wrestlers were modeled after Japanese wrestling stars but had their likenesses changed to avoid copyright issues.

The controls of the match are simple enough for anyone to jump in and learn, but you have to understand the psychology of wrestling (and use the controls accordingly) if you want to go deep into the championship modes of the game.  Players use the B button to strike, A button to initiate a grapple, the d-pad to move, and the joystick to either taunt or execute a special move.  The player can differentiate between a weak strike/grapple and a strong strike/grapple by holding the respective button down until the move is executed.  The more "worn down" your opponent is, the better chances you have of successfully hitting them with a strong attack.  Yet if you try to initiate a strong grapple on an opponent who's not worn down, they'll likely reverse the attack and counter with one of their own.  So much like real wrestling, you have to wear your opponent down with the weak attacks until you move up and hit them with the strong ones (and also like wrestling, it's a good idea to generate a response from the audience by letting out a taunt while your opponent's down.)  Once your spirit meter is full, you can strike an opponent with a special move by initiating a strong grapple and then moving the joystick (or alternately using the joystick when on the turnbuckle if the finisher's an aerial maneuver.)  The controls also allow you to run, leave the ring, block/counter an attack, dodge an attack, and set your focus on another opponent if you're involved in a handicap or tag team scenario.

The game has several modes:  Championship, Exhibition, and Special Modes.  The exhibition mode is a singles or tag team match where the player can face either the computer, a friend, or a few friends since the game supports up to 4 players.  The championship modes allow the player to compete for the WCW TV Championship, the WCW Cruiserweight Championship, the WCW Tag Team Championship, the WCW United States Championship, and the grand-daddy of them all, the WCW World Heavyweight Championship (affectionately referred to as the Big Gold Belt.)  While the path to the Television titles and the Cruiserweight titles aren't terribly challenging, you will need to bring your "A" game when competing for the higher-tiered titles (or you can dial the difficulty down to Easy, either or.)  The special modes essentially allow the player to engage in specialty handicap or battle royal exhibition matches; with the former allowing for 2-on-1 or 3-on-1 battles while the latter will have 4 competitors fighting each other in the ring until one's eliminated, with the option to allow up to 40 contestants to enter the match.  You're also given a mode where you can customize the given wrestlers to either have different names or to have them wear different costumes.

The upside to the game is that it's still fun to play, even 15 years later.  As I said earlier, anyone can pick up the controllers and jump in, while the subtle nuances of the game don't take much effort to figure out as you go along.  The soundtrack is limited but I don't ever think anyone confused WCW's entrance music with the music that Jim Johnston (of WWE fame) has released over the years (with the only exception being Goldberg's theme.)  The graphics were a work in progress considering where the franchise was at by the time WWF No Mercy was released, but it was still leaps and bounds better than what most expected from the gameplay of other systems at the time (as a reminder, this game was released for a console that is three generations removed from what's available today.)  If there was one drawback from the game, it's the limited gaming options that exist.  Once you beat the championship mode, that was essentially it as far as beating the game was concerned.  There were no steel cage match options, tag teams were limited to 2-on-2 action, and the create-a-wrestler option wouldn't be introduced until THQ/AKI began releasing titles for WWF.  Other gripes I have are that you can't seemingly control whether or not someone interferes on your behalf and the fact that the CPU can "Hulk up" their spirit meter rather effortlessly while the player has to do all the little things right to make that possible.

With all that said, however, the game's fun factor makes it a legitimate "must have" for wrestling fans and should be considered by N64 fans who are looking for a beat-em-up button-masher where the top prize is the WCW Championship.  I recommend this to N64 gaming fans, wrestling fans, and people who watched wrestling "when it was cool."After passing the second and then the first, I was attempted to do this one. The graphics are much better than the previous two, but the story got very boring. The adventures, too, became very uninteresting. Regarding saving and hidden place this one is by far the simplest.
The story here continues from where it ended in the last part, if you have won, that is. As oppose to aku-aku, we see the evil uka-uka who is the Big boss of Dr Cortex. And we see that Crash is forced to fight them! Why? Why, to save the world, of course!
In the previous 2 parts we had gems. Now, this was not enough for the overactive designers. They introduce trophies in this new part. For a trophy, you have to finish a level within an allotted time. This is not that difficult, but you cannot achieve it in every levels. Some levels are extremely difficult to finish fast. I picked all the gems and all but on trophy, and imagine my frustration.
If you are a crash fan you might like this one, but you cannot help being disappointed.I always hated the WCW. I was playing Warzone, Attitude and WWF titles for a long time. Then I somehow ended up owning this game and I inteneded to dissmiss it, but I found myself playing it more and more every day and eventualy loved it. I was happy to hear THQ got the rights to WWF and went from this to Wrestlmania and then the best game on the 64 NO MERCY. However, this is the foundation of where it started and I respect it for that. It brought a lot of awsome memorys and entertainment on hot summer nights. I recomend No Mercy over this, but this original version deserves your respect.Once again, Crash Bandicoot takes a big step up to greatness! "Crash Bandicoot 3: WARPED" was fantastic! It was even better than the second one. Better graphics, story, music, and gameplay. The enemies were fun just like in the first one and the new vehicles available were awesome, like the bi-planes, space fighter, Pura the Tiger, and the jet-ski. Also, it wasn't as difficult to gather the Crystals and Gems as it was in the second part. The environments were better and the new powers that Crash Bandicoot acquires are totally awesome: the Super Belly-Flop, Speed Shoes, Death-Tornado Spin Attack, and the totally awesome Fruit Bazooka! This is definitely one of the best of the games in the Crash Bandicoot Trilogy. You Crash fans MUST get this game!This is a more than ok game. Not the best,but good. If you like the "Spyro" series,you'll like this for sure. The gameplay, control,sound,etc. are all like the first 2. The only problem is it's EASY.Really,really easy. The levels are about 5 minutes long each,and the total gameplay span is about 7 hours. But still, thats better than it being hard. It's still pretty fun and stays true to the first 2. And Crash's little sister premires in it. Here's the review:
Graphics:4/5
Sound:5/5
Music:3/5
Fun:4/5
Control:
D-pad:3/5
Analog:5/5
Overall:4/5
hould you buy it?:Yepand you just became part of it.
Pros:
Brought violence and profanity in videogames to a whole new level
Very good sound effects
long enjoyable levels and misions
A short, but destructable arsenoal
Very useful cheat codes(Despit I usally don't cheat)
Pretty good music
Cons:
The graphics are plain out horrible
one shot death(A bit too realistic)well, unless you have armor
Can't save until you beat a level
definitly not for kids
The game suffers from slowdowns, if too many things are on the screen
In 98 this game was jst a instant classic, despite being overshadowed by loads of games(especially Metal Gear Solid, and Zelda:Ocorina of time).  It's definitly unknown since GTA 3 and Vice City overshadowed it by a loooong mile, but yet I still play this game from time to time.  In this game you could even say ... the police and let them eat the gat, take out a squad of them with a machine gun, blaze them up with a flame thrower, or just blow them away with almighty rocket launcher(That was propably the main reason this game got a lot of heat form contaversy).  If you're used to GTA 3 or Vice City, then this game will hardly be interesting to you, but if you have this game, then I'm sure you appreciate the joy the classic burng to you, and took you on the crazy ride from this, all the way to vice city.
Final Words:Speaking of Vice City, That was one of the levels in this game, and so was liberty City, and San Anderess is the last city.  Could San Andress be the next Grand Theft Auto?  Hmmmm...
peaceThe original Grand Theft Auto was a classic for the PC, but it's gleefully unabashed violence, simple graphics, dark humor, and addictive gameplay garnered the game much appeal and controversy.  Eventually Take 2 Interactive (now they're called Rockstar) published GTA on as many systems as it could: the PS1, Dreamcast, and even the Game Boy Color.  These days anyone and everyone are GTA nuts, but only when it comes to GTA 3 or Vice City.  The original GTA may seem simple enough, but it is undeniably fun for the most part, no matter how simplistic the graphics seem.  The missions can get rather tedious, and the fact you can't save your progress in game (a problem which would be corrected in GTA 3), and eventually you'll lose interest, but for the most part the original GTA is still loads of fun.  Those who have only played GTA 3 or Vice City will not like this original installment, but it's a great ride while it lasts.The game came in good shape not great but good. Still satisfied with my purchase though. Does work great just not a collector's choice. Not worth sending back  for the flaws it has but am only going to rate it 4 stars. It said like new condition but was not quite like that when received. Was packaged well but did not say fragile handle with care on it like others I have ordered. Still one of the best games of all times though.Surprisingly I never got a chance to play the original on the computer, but the N64 version seems to portray the insanity well. As I understand it the weapons, enemies and level textures are the same, but the actual level designs are N64-exclusive, which is a neat touch. Much like the first Quake it's not a thinking man's shooter like Perfect Dark or GoldenEye, but there are some surprising elements such as the enemies that take potshots at you in their death throes. And while there's no online component, it offers a commendable split-screen experience.

The N64 did well with shooters, and Quake II is a solid addition to the library. My only real gripe is with the series itself; from this point on we lost the moody Gothic feel of the original for something much more sci-fi. Still, that may not matter when the enemies come tearing into you.While the product is what it is described as, it unfortunately will give me no signal whatsoever. I believe it is a fault of the a/v cable side, as plugging that in, unplugging it, blowing on it, hissing at it, calling it names, then plugging it back in seems to make it work again. I did check and have the problem across more than one tv, so it's not the tv's fault. I have no way to determine with confidence if it is a fault of the Wii, but I doubt so, as the Wii has no problem with its standard definition cabling that it came with (why, Wii, did you not include component/hdmi cabling by default? HD isn't that rare). Ah, but it is the most inexpensive version of this cable I could find, and the picture is markedly better using this than the original cabling.Amazing game. Somewhat easy with a rather sharp difficulty spike at the end, but overall enjoyable.this is wat made me love mario. mario 64!

this is the biggest game crammed into a cartridge ive seen, its musically awesome, graphically it shows age, and the camera isn't as good as it could be, but I still haven't beaten it since then! thats how massive & how much gameplay there is to it!

I remember sliding down caves & smashing boulders back in the day, now that a friend sold it to me, Im in love with it!mario was always kind if a hard game for me. i unlocked a lot of stars but a lot of the game went unlocked. i never did beat the whole thing. there are some cheats you can look up online for this game.Better than TR2 for sure. It has some brain taxing levels filled with puzzles, secrets and some enemies. I'm glad to see they have cut back on the enemies and focused on the puzzles and scenery. They have definatly picked some good locations for the game, with brilliant details that are authentic in style. Unfortunatly that is where the authenticity ends.
  The level makers should have done some research on these locations and made them more like they are in real life. OK, I know it's an adventure game that is meant to be fantasy, but I do feel they could have checked things out first.
  Examples; India dosn't have pyrannas(Brazil does), the Ganges dosn't end in a pond, St. Pauls Cathedral looks nothing like that(that must be the worst rendition of it yet), the British Museum is not next to the Lloyds building, and Area 51 is more spacious than that(I saw it on a TV programme, I swear). I won't judge the Pacific levels though, I don't know enough about them. They realy do need to watch their locations more.
Enjoyable game though.Yes, I did find this a bit cumbersome. I wanted a more puzzle oridented game. I kept getting stuck in seemingly absurd situations and go to a walk-through forum to make progress. One of the comforts is that a cheat code can take you to the next level, if you get frustrated through not being able to figure out some trick to advance. Lara is a great character. But in this game she is faced with too many obstacles and impossible-to-discover secrets to make the game truly enjoyable.One of the best mario games ever made, it was such a huge jump from the previous consoles looked and played amazingly, hours of entertainment for anyone that enjoys adventure type games.The video quality is fine but if you have your hdmi plugged directly into your tv and have a separate receiver for audio, the cables are way too short to fit in both, so right now if I want to use the better video signal, I have to use the tv audio. I'll try to rip open the cables to make them reach but this is really a design flaw, although many newer receivers have hdmi connectors on them, there are a lot that don't.For anyone who was a fan of video games, they remember the year of 1996:

The Playstation made waves and drew many Nintendo fans away with its 32-bit graphics and CD based games. For the first time, Nintendo was being challenged on its own ground and they had to answer Sony with a console of its own. After they put the Super Nintendo system to rest, they went to work and released the Nintendo 64 to the public. The odds were against them because with only two launch titles to choose from, early adopters had to either pick Pilotwings 64 (a good game) or Super Mario 64. This game was the reason Nintendo's console immediately flew off the shelves and showed that Mario can make the jump to 3D and it was fun doing so.

I'll make my review short because other reviewers had covered the basics and importance of Super Mario 64. It stars Mario in an open world where each stage is contained within various paintings scattered through Princess Peach's castle. The storyline is pretty typical by now: King Bowser kidnaps the princess and you jump in to rescue her. The graphics are colorful, bright and were a breakthrough in video game technology at the time. The controls are perfect and take almost no time to get used to. It's a pretty challenging game so expect to replay certain stages over and over again. So why did I give it 4.5 stars? The camera is not perfect but back then, getting the camera to work in any open world style game was difficult to program. It always centers behind you but sometimes gets a little wacky when you go up ledges or around corners. It gets annoying after awhile but you learn to tolerate it.

What made this game groundbreaking was that games of this type proved to be a challenge to make and to make it fun as well is really the main goal. Super Mario 64 exceeds this and was a commercial success with gamers and gained much critical acclaim from reviewers of virtually every gaming publication. Those who say didn't like were in the minority and for reasons that were just too petty and silly. While gaming has changed tremendously since 1996, this game shows that the platform genre was at one point the kind of games that everyone wanted to play. And now, you can either track down the cartridge or get this for the Nintendo DS. So if you haven't played this, take a look for yourself as to why many gamers loved to play this game. I highly recommend it.I'm not very good at video games, so this game is pretty tough for me.  I only have about 20 stars right now and I've had it about a year!  However, other than the not-so-great 3D graphics and the silly camera angles, it is a fun though challanging game.  I look forward to someday getting all 120 starts!!!  hahai remember when i was in high school and this game was brand new and just came out. I played this sooooo much, i got an ache in my hand. I've only beaten it once, but i'll tell you what, in that one time, it took me 3 to 4 months to beat it.i found this game to be a challenge at first, used to the old side-scrolling games of mario it took some time to get used to the fact its now in 3D.

if you like mario you will love thi 3D game.What can I say? This game is fun and funny at the same time. From mario flying around with the magic caps to Mario burning his [...] cheeks on the hot lava, this game is great! My only problem with this game is the freakin camera angles!!! AHHHHH sometimes I feel like I could just kick the Lakitu that controls the thing! Angles sometimes get soooo akward that it makes it difficult to make a jump correctly..or so you won't go flying down to your death. Other than that I give it a 4. Would be 5 if the camera was better.What a great game, I like it alot. The only problems I found were:
1: It gives off way too many hints to how to complete a puzzle or beat a boss(EXAMPLE: On the first time you fight Bowser, he says "Can you get behind me and grab my tail? I think not!"

2: Moving around is kinda stupid because Mario can't move to the different direction fast enough and he slips on the floor when he moves.

Other than these flaws, this is a solid title that deserves to be in your collection.I enjoyed this game.  It was very fun.  It was the very first game I owned for the N64, so I didn't really understand how the controls worked but this game was really easy to figure out.  I love it.  When I walk by it in stores and see it ..., I'm speechless.  It is a great game, and by the looks of it, the price it down too.  This is definently worth your money.Well I don't acttully have 120 stars, but that is how much you are suposse to get. But I have 95 stars! I am onyy 9 so please awnser my revies for me!This game is so much fun.  I've always been a big fan of Mario since the beginning.  The graphics are great and the sound is pretty good too.  There are many different goals to reach in each level.  Whether you have to collect coins or stars to open new levels, I know you'll love this game.Surprisingly, when Nintendo created the N64 game system, they had absolutely no idea of how succesful it would be. The first game that the system ran on was also a scream. It just sometimes comes to me as a surprise that a lot of these newer games that run on CD-ROM like the Playstation 2, and the XBOX may have faster and better graphics, but not likely with the actual loading time.
Nintendo's Super Mario 64, remains as the most dynamic staple of any N64 system to date. The graphics are just completely amazing, and so strong from one angle to another. In Super MArio 64, you guide Mario through 15 terrific stages with exciting adventure around every corner. The object of the game is to try collect as many stars as possible that are hidden in the game. Each star is very vital inorder to help you save Peach, whom is still known as Princess Toadstool, from the vile Bowser. Each course takes you from all depths of the secret kingdom, from Sea, to the firey sky, and even in a spooky ghost-filled house. The load up time for this, and every other N64 game is much faster than the CD-Rom games for the PC, and the other CD-Rom console games.
It is kind of sad Nintendo stopped making fantastic games on cartridge like this, and traded it for a CD-ROM gaming factory, with the Gamecube. Nevertheless, Super Mario 64 is still the most superior game of the 20th century, and that is not even a pizza-faced lie.This is a great classic game that basically revolutionized Nintendo 64 but there is only one problem. It is WAY too easy to beat. But I guess since it's an old game I can see why.
Basically the "mission" is to recover all the 120 stars and save the Princess from the evil "Bowser." It's really easy and you can beat the game in about a month. Even though I have plenty of Nintendo games, I still go back to this game once in awhile because it's a classic favorite. Many current Nintendo games can't compete against it. If only this game was a bit more challenging!! I think all new Nintendo 64 buyers should get this as there first game because you can explore alot with controls and skills that'll help you out in more challenging games.
Any fans of Mario, or Nintendo genre would like this game. As far as kids, there isn't much violence in this game. No blood, or gorey actions. The price is pretty ok, and the game's plot is pretty ok. There are many courses and places to explore so if you are a slow player it'll take some time. After you complete the game, you'll still be going back to it. Seeing that my brothers and I already beat it over 10 times, we're finally getting tired of it!I could knock a few stars off by going on and on about what they SHOULD have put into this game -a playable Princess, animal costumes, Fire Flowers, etc.- but such negativity could foolishly ruin such a great game. Super Mario 64 isn't perfect but it has the best damn gameplay of any action title. The worlds are massive with lots of vibrant colors, whacky enemies, catchy music, and most importantly, gameplay.

The only downsides to this game are Mario's horribly annoying voice, an occasionally fussy camera, and the possibility of graining your N64 control stick when you fight Bowser. These minor neusances are mild though and they don't really hinder the gameplay. All other downsides merely point to the characters themselves: Mario speaks with a bad Italian accent voiced by Charles Martinet instead of his old Brooklyn one from the cartoon series. I also don't like the changes made to Princess Toadstool. Instead of the spunky redhead from the cartoon series, she seems more like a "dumb blonde" with a weird voice.

Yes, this game is old but, like fine wine, games can get better with age.One of the launch titles for the N64 back in '96 Super Mario 64 had only a small band of rivals at the time. The most prominent being Star Wars Shadows of the Empire and Star Fox 64. The game has stood the test of time in several factors. One you can still find it brand new. Two the previous games mentioned are almost impossible to find unused! Three for a launch game the graphics were great, but they are not as good as late comer Banjo-Kazooie. The story line is interesting and the levels are big, but not as large as Banjo-Kazooie. You have to find 100 Power Stars that Bowser stole from Princess Peaches's castle, and if you get all 100 you can go to a cannon near the castle, hop inside, shoot onto the roof of the castle, meet Yoshi (Mario's dinosaur friend) who will give a super new jump and 100 lives! The games levels are challenging espicially the last few levels and the levels where you fave Bowser (you have to beat him three times) are DANGEROUS especially the last one. From the sea to land to desert to snow covered mountain and to the desert and beyond Mario must battle enemies in 3-d and collect six stars on every level. Five stars are attainable by completing tasks while the sixth is attainable when you collect 100 coins on a level. The music is hummable and the characters are nice and mean. This is still Marios biggest adventure and with the coming of the Gamecube and the fall in price for the Nintendo 64 and its games, Super Mario 64 is a must have. I've had my 64 since Christmas '97 and also received Super Mario 64 which is still a GREAT game!great graphics, good gameplay. if you want a challenging game, get this one. its kinda hard, it'll keep you busy for a couple of weeks.This game is fun, but don't expect a classic Super Mario game. This one is way diffrent than any other Mario game before it, but still great in it's own way.I bought this game in 1997, over a year after it was released. The first few weeks i played it, i was amazed at the beautiful 3D graphics. Honestly,  i had never seen 3D graphics before this game, so it was awesome and  inspiring.
I love this game, so i'm writing this review. There are some  memorable moments from this game (like when Mario ventures into the haunted  mansion or when he goes on a rainbow ride in the skies)
All in all, it  showcases the N64 incredible 3D graphics and the sound isn't half  bad.
The levels are interesting and sparse ( i beat this game with the  Nintendo Power guidebook) and should take some time to crack the puzzles.  Basically, the game is quite easy and not surprisingly, it has enough  mini-quests and puzzles to keep you occupied. As for level designs, i think  it's excusable considering it's first generation stuff but still deep  enough to immerse you (again) after a long absence...
My gripe is while  this game is really good (i mean i'm a big-time Mario fan from the first  mario game), it's only as good as it lasts. I found it hard to go back to  this game after a while- cause it was like having discovered everything and  it made it hard to play through the whole thing again.
My advice: play  selectively. You need to get into the mood. While i say that, it's without  doubt that i have never regretted buying this game.
Even if i never play  this game again and leave it to collect dust (not likely)-i'll always  remember this game as one of the finest moments of the N64 lifetime (that  is 1996-2001).
Anyway, every Super Mario game is groundbreaking (SMB1  created the side-scroller, SMB2 was queer and fun, SMB3 is the greatest  platform game ever, SMB4 was one of the most replayed game i ever played  and this game is mario in 3D without luigi,which is sad)
But cheer up  people- the next generation is almost upon us. But i know that when we look  at 3D graphics today, we will know that this game had a part to play in  making this our reality today.Anyone who has ever played a flight sim can tell this is not like A10-warthog just by reading the info on the game. This is an arcade type game with some sim stuff add to make it sell more and be kind of fun and fast to play. Sometimes we all just want to blow the (blank) out of things and unwind. This is fairly well made and the graphics are ok for what it is(a game).
If you want a real flight sim this is not it. If you just want to get online and have some fun with others for a while this is it. The target aircraft can do hard right and left turns that would take the wings of any aircraft and thats not right but this is a game and not a sim. This was made sometime ago and graphics have come along way but it is ok for it's time.
You will not have any issues installing this or running this game on most systems with a gtx460 or better. You can max out all setting with one evga gtx560ti 2gb video card. The install dose take some time to get done and it will update for you when you run the sim the first time. This all takes 30min or so counting the install of the game.
It is what it is and thats a game not a flight sim but it is fun to play a few hours now and then.
I have a solid system and have had no issues running this at all.
If you are looking for a real flight sim that has ture reallistic flight of the aircraft and working cockpits, this is not for you. Try A10-warthog or wings over europe or wings over vietnam or IL-2. These are flight sims and run well on any solid sysetm with xp or windows 7 running.It makes you think. I agree that few new surprises are discovered after the first bit fo time, but I find I can keep playing it whenever I need just a little tedious activity to occupy me. (Personally, I like to listen to books on tape while I play--but that's just me).

My suggestion? Buy it, it's worth it.Making a City, it's a change for once. I like this game because it gives easy control, and it's fun to play. There are some down-sides to it too, like it takes too long to make a big city, and Sims complain tooooo much, but it's all good other then that. My favorite thing to do is save the city, then rip it down by disteasters. The good thing is you don't have to save it after you destory it. This game can be easy or hard, like if you want to make a big city, it takes time, and it's hard, but if you use codes like:I am weak, Call coison Vinnie, I love Red Tape, Power to the masses, Water in the desert, Garage in garage out, and nardz rool(actually spelling) it's eazy (...). Graphics, well it isn't that good on making small sims, but good on everything else, 9/10 Fun, a very fun game, isn't has fun as some games, but it's cool,7/10 Gameplay, well, if you like making cities, then it has long gameplay, 8.5/10 Sound, I really like the sound because it makes me think more,9.5/10 Overall, you would love this game, but it's fun isn't like some games 8.5/10 which is Great/Awesome and 4 stars for Sim City 3000!I enjoy playing this game for the most part. I have spent hours glued to the computer watching my cities grow. Unfortunately as the cities increase in population, so does the chances of the computer crashing - a very annoying problem. Also the parades last too long, the seaports are difficult to develop, the terrain for some cities, such as St. Louis, are unusually hilly, and the buildings look alike. The game is not that challenging. But overall a recommended game.This is a nice little arcade game with good graphics and some good chatter. It's fun to play with after spending time with DCS Blackshark.  It's a good shootem up. enjoyable!First off, let me clear up some misstatements about the features listed above by amazon.com:
*Realistic 3-D environment
Wrong. The game is 2D, it merely looks 3D. It IS realistic, however. There is far more detail in  2D than could ever have been done in 3D and still hae it run on everyone's  machine.
*View cities from up to 50,000 feet
I guess...you have 5 zoom  levels. The above implies that you can zoom to any level.
*Detailed  control over businesses and other facilities
None whatsoever other than  being able to zone blocks of residential, commercial, and industrial areas,  along with other specialized zones. You can't micromanage any individual  businesses.
*Everything and everyone moves
Cars and SimCitizens move,  so do some animated buildings, but certainly not EVERYTHING.
*Optional  load-in sets for customization and enhancements
That's handled much  better in SC3K Unlimited.
SimCity 3000 is a mixed bag for me. I love  being able to play a fully updated version of 2000, but whether it should  be called 3000 or 2100 is something of a dilemma.
Graphics-wise, 3000 is  beautiful! No two ways about it. A lot of hype has gone into the fact that  you can now zoom in and see little sims walking, driving around in  individual cars, and so on. The building images are now fully 4-sided  entities so that rotating the view yields 4 different looks at each  feature. Five zoom levels let you choose the size you're comfortable with  to build on. Some people claim that the buildings are blocky and pixellated  at the highest zoom. I don't have that problem, but they are definitely not  the crisp renders that the other 4 zooms are. They are merely enlargements  of the 4th zoom. Vehicles and pedestrians remain crisp and distinct at any  zoom.
Gameplay: here's the sticking point for me. If you've continued to  play SimCity 2000 until you're red-eyed and guaranteed to be late for  work/school, you'll probably do the same with 3000. Given all the new bells  and whistles, it'll take some time to try them all and see how this affects  that. From this point, however, two camps emerge. One camp will continue  playing the game for years and loving every minute of it, relishing the  freedom to create anything they want. I fall into this category. The other  camp, once having seen everything and mastered building megalopoli at will,  are going to wonder what's the fun anymore. So depending on your  expectations for the game it'll be either a gift from heaven or something  you may well have wished didn't cost 40 to 50 bucks.
As for difficulty,  it's no harder really than 2000. Some of the new features like garbage  disposal, ordinances, and neighboring city dealings add depth and strategy  without making the game unduly complex. Maxis should be commended for  that.
Overall? It's good. In fact it's very good. They put a lot of work  into it making sure everything balances more or less. Is it worth the  money? Not now with SC3K Unlimited out. Get it instead, as it's much more  refined. If you haven't played a SimCity game before or if you're a diehard  2000 fan, absolutely. If you just sorta liked 2000 and quit playing it  after a little bit, you may want to wait until it hits the bargain rack.Perhaps SC3K's main problem is that it is far too detailed. Even on a speedy top-end machine the screen will fill with portions of white if you try to scroll at one of higher resolutions. Perhaps this is also SC3K's  main virtue - the fact that you can see down to the last person in your  metropolis. Whatever you say, despite the game's vast graphical and  not-so-vast strategic advances, it failed to do what the fans of the series  held closest to their hearts - personalization. The city develops  completely at random within your zonal confines - you cannot make a  candleshop district, a Downtown, or anything of the sort. You cannot name  streets, despite the fact that you place them yourself. The papers mention  you rarely and glancingly, at best, preferring to metion senseless rock  bands (whose names you cannot supply either) or some other uneventful  thing. The advisors are as helpful as ever - specifically, useless. They  either take no notice of the trouble befalling your city, or they take  notice of something very minor and blow it up to the size of a scandal. THE  1% COMMERCIAL TAX IS KILLING THE CITY!  REMOVE THE PARKING FINES!  All  the while industry fails to develop and a major power outage goes  unnoticed.
This game is a cleaner, crisper version of SimCity 2000,  perhaps an update, but in no way a new game in the series.This is a one player, 1st person shooter. The goal is to finish each level by finding keys, weapons and health kits all the while killing as many commies that look like monsters as possible, and trust me there are lots of  commies. There are hidden secrets throughout the game and any number of  sites on the net to tell you where those secrets are. The villians get  smarter and tougher as you progress through the game, the 1st opponents are  just some slow moving, shotgun toting targets, later levels have half  ram-half man beasts that are almost invincible shooting rockets at you!  Good thing you can get a double barrel shotgun, a minigun anti aircraft  type weapon, brass knuckles, a rocket launcher, a plasma gun, a pistol and  even a chainsaw for those up and close encounters. Ever wonder what it  would be like to walk into a building and just start shooting everyone in  sight? If so there are two things you need 1) Profesional help 2) This  game. Good deal at this price.I used to own this game, and while it is not the game I miss most, I still do think about it from time to time. The visuals are very good for the N64's graphics engine, and the voice acting, though there isn't a whole lot, is pretty good. The control is a bit of a problem, as is the camera. However, this is not a big surprise, for it is the first time the series of Castlevania has been moved to the third dimension. Then again, other series didn't really have that much trouble in the third dimension (Zelda, Mario, Final Fantasy, Breath of Fire, etc.), but you can't always win, can you? The music is awesome (naturally-it's Castlevania!) The sound effects are also good. The boss design is highly unique as well, and most importantly, IT'S FUN! I bought it for a mere $20, and it was actually worth it. Though I have sold it, I might try and purchase a friend's copy. If you are looking for a game that is a bit more simplistic in design than the classic Castlevania titles, then this is your ticket for sure.Extremely difficult to play - unless you're an expert. Have to admit - great graphics. Main problem with this particular game is that after maybe (say, an hour or so) it tends to get a bit old. Many - and I do mean many levels to conquer. I would only recommended this game to patrons who have plenty of patience. You know - the kind of -patience- that is required while you're on Ebay - trying to wait until the bid's end to an item that you want [so very bad] only to have one of those pesky last-minute snipers to come by and out-bid you within the very last ten seconds. That kind of patience. I much prefer the Atari 5200 version of this video game."Castlevania 64" offers you the experience of seeing a Castlevania adventure in a free-roaming, 3-D realm. I have played every Castlevania game right back to the NES days, and this is a good addition to a fine series. This is a great game, but not as good as "Castlevania: Symphony of the Night" for Playstation.
To start on a positive note, there is a lot of depth added thanks to the 3-D graphics. You can roam freely, battle monsters face-to-face, and search for hidden items without the constraints of side-scrolling. The control is responsive, and the buttons are easy to figure out, which is good considering the pace of the game. The 3-D worlds are huge, and are fun to explore. The sound is also excellent. You can hear the clatter of bones, the snapping of jaws, and the cracking of whips clearly, without that horrible distortion that we all remeber from earlier installments.
The cons of this game are mostly technical, nothing to do with the graphics or storyline. First of all, the camera can be a servere pain sometimes. It often lingers when you don't want it to, and the response time for panning and scanning is pertty bad.
The control is good, but sometimes it is clunky when you need to perform delicate movements. I remember the first level when I kept falling into the water and dying when I tried to jump from one ledge to another and missed by one inch. Also, a map would be helpful. Certain areas look the same as others, and sometimes, I cannot tell where I have been and where I am going. But as I said, these are more technical flaws. They don't exactly ruin the game.
Overall, this game is fun, and gives a whole new depth to the long-running series. But as good as this is, "Castlevania: SOTN" for Playstation is much better.This is a classic for so many reasons. One of the first major releases for the FPS genre. It looks and feels like the PC version, at least from my memory, and is as fun as I always remembered.The game itself was in "ok" condition and the case was good. I'm giving this 4 of 5 stars because at least the game works just fine. If it weren't for that, this would have been a 2 star rating at best.I had this version in the 90's and played it while a teenager.  I now repurchased it and am playing it in 2008 as a 28 year old.  It is STILL visceral, brooding and epic in its dark atmosphere.  In some ways, the minimalist "3D" of the original DOOM (particularly in this port) lends itself well to the overall gloomy atmosphere.  It creates a certain... menacing bleakness in the landscape.

One thing that REALLY makes this a DOOM to remember is the TOTALLY BENT, EPIC DRONECORE DARK AMBIENT SOUNDTRACK.  Playing DOOM on my modern computer, despite the incredible graphics, just isn't quite the same without that HAUNTING soundtrack.  Seriously, the soundtrack to this particular version of DOOM is so totally harrowing and visceral as to be nearly a moving life experience.  You will never quite forget it after hearing it.  The soundtrack is certainly one of the best of all time (for a video game).  It is profoundly moody, unrelentingly heavy and completely out there.  It sounds like something Steve Roach might create after surviving a journey through Hell and then having Trent Reznor as the music producer.

Overall, this is quite a good port over to the original Playstation.  Original DOOM is an all time classic with brilliant level design and awesome action that set the standard for years.  Pick up this version used and fade away into that crazy soundtrack from another level of existence...Doom for PS1 is a great game. Almost every level from Ultimate Doom & Doom II is here, plus some new levels never before seen on the PC. This game is dark, scary as hell, and can really get in your head. The soundtrack is totally different from the PC, and creates a very eerie atmosphere that few games ever do. The controls are easy to learn, that's a good thing. However, the only reason why I gave this game 4 stars instead of 5 is because of the graphics. Yes, as you may have already read, the graphics are a bit sluggish, especially when compared to the PC version. In my opinion, the best version of Doom is the PC version, period. Doom, Doom 2, and Final Doom are the best video games ever, in MY opinion.I know this will sound crazy, but the main reason I finally broke down and purchased a Playstation several years ago was because I wanted to play some of the wrestling games available for this particular console.  For whatever reason, no one has ever come close to producing a decent wrestling game for the PC.  At the time, I was a serious wrestling fan, having been drawn back to the fold by the brilliant internal division in WCW between the good guys and the evil NOW.  WCW Thunder came out while the WCW was at its peak of popularity, and I just had to have it.  While the game has naturally lost some of its luster as time has passed and gaming hardware improved, it had all sorts of enticing features then and remains a fun diversion even now.
WCW Thunder had a lot to offer fans when it was released.  For starters, you had some 60 superstars to choose from, including the biggest names around such as Goldberg and Hogan; all kinds of other hidden wrestlers also lay buried inside the game, waiting for you to win with certain characters (or use the handy dandy cheat codes) to unlock them-everything from made-up goofy characters to the wrestlers who got beat up for a living every week to announcers to members of the Nitro Girls (including the luscious Kimberly).  While certain basic moves worked for all wrestlers, each individual wrestler, including the hidden ones, had their own signature moves.  Thus, you could have Goldberg take his opponent out with the Spear followed by the Jack Hammer, or have Lex Luger turn a man into a little baby while hoisted up in the Torture Rack.  Each wrestler came with his own theme music and personal allegiance, but you had the option of changing a guy's alliance.  This could become important in terms of one of my favorite features of the game, the ability to have an ally come to the ring to help you avoid a loss or just to help you beat the heck out of your opponent.
The game offers a number of game types for one or two players.  You can fight an exhibition match or go for the TV Title, US Heavyweight Title or walk that aisle in pursuit of the World Heavyweight belt.  If you get tired of one-on-one action, you can choose tag-team play or battle it out with 29 other wrestlers in a Battle Royal.  You can even get down to brass tacks and battle it out in a cage match.  The only bad thing about a cage match is the fact that it does not allow you access to any weapons.  In normal game play, there are a number of weapons outside the ring (you control how many) that you can pick up and use to beat the fool out of everybody that gets in your way; you can even just keep wailing on your opponent after he hits the ground.
WCW Thunder is and never was perfect, though.  For one thing, the game quickly becomes rather easy.  You can just pile drive your opponent over and over again into oblivion if you like or take a stop sign upside a guy's head a dozen or more times and pin him easily.  The clumsy combination moves actually become a good thing here because it is sometimes a challenge to perform that special killer move your wrestler is famous for and end the match in style.  The graphics are decent but not great, and my Playstation seems to have a few hitches in its gitty-up when it tries to render large numbers of wrestlers all at once in Battle Royal mode.  I still enjoy playing WCW Thunder, though.  It looks a lot like the earlier WCW Nitro game, but it plays a lot better in my opinion.  There are better games available now, even for the Playstation, but I have a feeling that I'll be enjoying this game on and off for many years to come.Haven't had a chance to extensively play it yet, but it arrived quickly and works well!The game works great the only bad part it that the game smells like smoke but nothing a can of fabreeze could not handleI used to play this game years ago lol. The funniest foul mouthed 3rd graders stick it to the turkeys once and for all. From dart guns- pee drenched snow balls, this game is a good laugh for south park fans.This is truly a funny game. It captures the feel of South Park with it's cartoony style. The weapons are funny like snowballs (2nd fire- yellow snowballs) to plungers. The voices from the show are funny. I recomend this game to any South Park fan out there.Sure, this game's been out for alomost four years now, but it's time I reviewed it. The exceptionally popular foul-mouth TV shows based on the fictional, yet epic adventures of Kyle, Cartman, Stan, and (the now removed) Kenny, four innocent little third graders (now fourth) in the snowy, mountain town of Colorado. It's a wonderful life; you have a gay teacher, a pimp-daddy chef, a best friend who dies more than 10 times a week, and all the Cheesy Poofs you could ever want. At least, until, killer turkeys, aliens, clones, and toys invade your town and try to take it over. YOU and YOU alon must prevent these attacks (or you could just leave the worthless town to be burnt, but then the game's no fun).
Like all shooter's, I only enjoy this game with cheats. The master cheat for this game is "BOBBYBIRD", or, if you break it down, "BOBBY BIRD". It unlocks every weapon, level, and everything else your twisted little mind wants from this game.
In single-player, you assume the role of either Stan, Cartman, Kenny, or who I always pick, Kyle. Each comes with their own insults and comments. As you progress, you find Kenny, Cartman, and Stan, and they come with you, but you can't play as or with them. They just allow you to hold more weapons and item (I guess that's because it's four pairs of hands). Your first mission is to destroy the turkeys; and ultimatly, the gigantic, robo-turkey. Without cheats, you start with a snowball, or you can advance it, and make it a "yellow snowball" (and if you've seen Jackass, you know what that is). The other weapons are a cow launcher, a toy-machine gun, and more. Sooooo much more.
This game is a good game, but only if you're a fan of the TV show. Even though it would be fun if some people weren't, they'd still annoy everyone, complaining of "bad language" and "foul humor". Ignore them. If you're a fan, get this, or at least rent it. Later.South Park the video game is all right. I don't think it's smash worthy but I really don't think it's flush worthy either because it did probably one of the smarter things and totally copied 007 GoldenEye and gave it a total South Park twist.
As usual, weird stuff is happening around South Park like mad, killer turkeys are attacking the city, strange mutants are running around and crazy self propelled toys are out to get you as you take the baddest 8 year olds on the planet Stan, Kyle, Kenny and Cartman on this strange, vulger and very gratuitous journey.
I gotta say it, the game was funny and it made me laugh all the way through, especially if you ran across the Terrance and Phillip bombs! Other than that, I really didn't feel there was much else besides all the cool codes (like all the weapons codes and stuff) and that you could be so many people in the multiplayer mode like Officer Barbrady, Mr. Mackey (M'kay), Terrance and Phillip and if you really wanted to, Starvin' Marvin.
The story is really silly but then again, when is there an episode of South Park that isn't just plain out ridiculous? Exactly. The controls are pretty easy too. You can set it to GoldenEye style of control or for you advanced users, you can use a Turok type of control.
I still gotta say that I wouldn't play it for it's story mode. Personally, I'd play it for it's multiplayer mode because that's what the game is really good at! That and I personally thought you could do a lot more in the vs modes rather than in the story modes.
For you parents, most of the swearing is bleeped out but a few "choice" phrases are in there so give it a thought before you buy it for your kids. For those of you that don't have to worry about that, order a pizza, call over a few friends and throw on some South Park multiplayer. Have fun!This game is pretty good for its own sake. It's basically about a dead warrior in a land of ghouls & zombies who attack him at every turn, & it is up to you to find the Chaos Rune, among other hidden treasures arrayed throughout this underworld of bizarre incarnations.

 The animations are up to 3-D par, although I will remark on the variety of different angles. The graphics are japanamistic, but nonetheless amusing.this game is very old, but today its still just as good as any tekan, streetfighter or mortal combat. The only down side is the controls are a little different then most games.I picked this up the other day. It only took a few hours to finish the 1-player mode, but I suppose the fact that I'd previously played BattleTanx: Global Assault on PS1 helped me out a little.

Story: Some virus gets out of control and eliminates 99.9% of the females on planet earth. This dude named Griffin is in love with this girl, and then the government comes and takes her away. Meanwhile, gangster militias that are armed with Tanks take over the US and likely the rest of the world. Griffin vows to get his girlfriend back and save America from the various Tank gangs.

Gameplay: You play the entire campaign through in your stereotypical mock Abrams tank, blasting through enemy defenses and rescuing (or kidnapping???) women. Your tribal army needs women to stay in existence. Different gangs have different types of tanks. There are a variety of powerups for your tank like swarmer missiles, guided missiles, lasers, and gun buddies you can set down to defend areas. Most of the missions remind me of a multiplayer session of "Capture the Flag" from any number of FPS games. BattleTanx's single-player is unique in that regard.

Controls: They work pretty good. No complaints.

Multiplayer: There's no co-op campaign. BOO! :P You can play through various types of matches (most of which resemble the single-player levels) against friends or the AI. You can use the tanks of enemy games in the multi-player. That's all good and well, I guess, but I know I can blow my friends to kingdom come. What I really wanted was to be able to play it through the campaign on 2 players.

Graphics: They're early N64, but they look alright. I don't like the fact that your main tank in single-player looks so cartoony. The comic-style storytelling is unique, and I think they're way better than PS1 Global Assault's campy voice-acting.

If you're a fan of the BattleTanx series, I suppose owning (what I assume is) the first entry is important. However, if I had to choose between this game and its sequel, I would choose the latter due to its better single-player campaign.This game is interesting.  My sister made me pick it up and it is fun to mess around with.  If you are looking for a cute little adventure platformer then this is it.  The graphics are good and the control isn't too tricky.  It does get difficult in parts but not overly.  I am not a huge fan of platform games but this one got me with its unique humorous tones.  Give it a shot on your PS2 if you haven't.  It's a bargain.Soul Edge - Circa 1996

GOOD:

- Gameplay is pretty balanced

- Some nice unlockables

- Different and interesting story for a fighter

- Pretty good sound track for a fighter

BAD:

- Graphics looked pretty dated

- Voice-Overs are not so good

IF IT FITS YOUR TASTE:

- Play story mode to unlock new swords characters and costumes

- Plays like Tekken, but with weapons

- Medieval Theme has Ninjas and Samurais fighting Pirates and Knights

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Tekken 2

- Virtual Fighter 2

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- This is the first game in the Soul Caliber franchise

- In the arcade this game was called Soul BladeDecently priced, disk has scratches. It plays okay, skips sometimes, freezes. Price high for damaged merchandise.This is the very first twisted metal game to come out and i loved it. It is different than the rest of them but it is still fun to play. It has the original people and tracks to go to so if u have played any of the other twisted metal games u will reconize most of these people. It is very hard to beat because it is the first game and it took a long time to get used to. The graphics well this is the first one, its on the ps1, and it is a very old game so yes they r not very good. It is all blocky and the cars move in weird directions. This is a great game on multiplayer though, there r many different things to do unstead of just battleing each other. After u beat the game a couple of times it is easy to play and beat ur friends at it. This is a very fun but challenging game.I've only played Twisted Metals 3 and 4, but not the first two games in the series...Twisted Metal 4 has cheats to unlock the bosses like Sweet Tooth, Minion, etc.I had Dirt 2 on Xbox 360 and it was an okay game. I started playing games on my laptop and bought a few new games to build my collection. This game is very fun to play. It is so much better than Dirt 2. If you like racing games you should check this out. The graphics are perfect on my compter.I din't get this game until almost a year ago, but I still find it to be pretty fun. It has a tiny roster (with only ten guys) that is EXTREMELY outdated, but I recognized most of the guys, several of them being among my favorite wrestlers. (The only one who was completely unfamiliar to me was Ahmed Johnson.) I think the graphics are really good although the wrestlers aren't very large on the screen, and the gameplay is done pretty well. No, the game isn't very realistic, but I think that just adds to the fun! Some people seem to have issues with the load times, but I don't really think the load times are bad at all. I've played games that have much longer load times! I think this game is much better than WCW Vs. The World (which is one of the only two other wrestling games I have for PS1), even though that game has many more guys on it!WWF In Your House, while graphically WORSE than WWF Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game, should *not* be ignored if you like that Wrestlemania game because In Your House features the *exact* same arcade wrestling action.  The wrestlers have been updated too.

Yes, WWF In Your House is an old game with noticeably average graphics and not-so smooth animations.  It came out in 1996, I believe.  The graphics simply aren't as good as Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game.  BUT if you're a fan of Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game, I see no reason why you wouldn't like In Your House.

Some reviewers claim this game is hard.  It's really not that hard once you remember the most effective and damaging moves. It's easier than Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game.  In fact, if you consider yourself a fast gamer, you won't have ANY trouble with In Your House.  There's an option to put the game on easy, so if you must, put the game on easy.  Also turning blocking off helps make the game much easier.  Using the run button that's located at the top of the Playstation controller (I believe it's either L2 or R2, or maybe both) is a MUCH better idea than using the OTHER way of running (hitting two buttons at once- ugh!)

The loading time is somewhat worse than Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game, but only somewhat.  In Your House takes maybe 3 or 4 seconds longer to load a match, if that.  Unfortunately, the way Vince McMahon introduces the wrestlers is pretty bland and uninteresting compared to Wrestlemania: the Arcade Game where you actually saw the wrestlers running forward, towards their opponents, featuring their own distinct animations (such as Shawn Michaels posing and Doink "the clown" squirting water).  In this game, Vince just SAYS who you're facing while a boring picture appears on screen showing the wrestlers.  It's not as good.

You get to play as 10 wrestlers, and each wrestler has his own set of unique moves.  It's better to try finishing off your opponent using the moves that drain the most energy.  That's the number one rule to winning.

Going through a World Title tournament in Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game takes about 10 minutes.  Here it takes about 20 minutes, because you have to compete in more matches.  It's not a problem at all, though.  If anything, it's better this way, because it's *so* much fun going through all the rounds and whipping out one devastating move after another.  Some of these moves are realistic, while other moves are too extreme for wrestlers to be able to perform in reality.  For example, the Ultimate Warrior shooting lightning and the Undertaker shooting some kind of demonic spirits at you.  It doesn't happen in real life.

You get to play as Shawn Michaels, Vader, Bret Hart, Owen Hart, Ahmed Johnson, The British Bulldog Davey Boy Smith, The Undertaker, Goldust, The Ultimate Warrior, and Hunter Hearst Helmsley.  People may complain that this is a really small list of wrestlers to choose from, but it's actually better than the more updated wrestling games on the market today that feature WAY too many wrestlers that have no reason to exist.  At least with a small selection, you will be able to remember all your opponents main power moves.  Plus, giving you a small list of selectable wrestlers makes it feel more like a short and intense arcade game, which is the point.

It's probably the hardest going through the tournaments (all three of them) with Goldust because his energy seems to drain very quickly, and it's probably the easiest to complete these tournaments with Shawn Michaels or the British Bulldog Davey Boy Smith because they have MANY power moves that finish your opponent off very quickly.

But as I said above, this game is worse than Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game because the graphics and animations aren't in the same league.  But see, the thing is, In Your House and Wrestlemania: the Arcade Game are the ONLY arcade wrestling games with the WWE logo on them.  This means we only have TWO games like this that exist in the entire world.  Sure beats having a million slow-moving big and bulky 3D WWE games out there that have no major innovations implemented whatsoever to separate themselves, right?

I have a lot of fun with these arcade style wrestling games, so realism doesn't matter to me at all.  I will take this game over any and all of the best-looking WWE wrestling games that are so popular today.  I prefer wrestling games that are FAST, and that's what In Your House is all about.  It's fast, exciting, unique and with practice, not very difficult to complete.  Who cares about graphics?

So, in short, I don't CARE that In Your House is sort of a low-budget looking WWE game.  This and Wrestlemania are the only games like it.

Also, the commentators, Vince McMahon and Mr. Perfect, have a LOT more things to say in In Your House compared to Vince and Jerry Lawler in Wrestlemania: The Arcade Game.  Also worth mentioning: each wrestler has their own special thing to say at the beginning and end of a match.  Okay, so they don't say things ALL the time, but many times they do.

Both the Playstation and Saturn versions are great.  The Playstation version has shorter loading times, and plus I think the Playstation controller is better for delivering moves because of the simple button layout.  Also, there's a Sound Test option only in the Playstation version where you can hear all the sound effects and theme songs in the game.  I mean EVERY SINGLE THING you hear in the game can be found in the sound menu!  It's pretty awesome.

The Saturn version has a couple things that the Playstation version doesn't have, so don't worry Saturn fans!  Exclusive to the Saturn version includes an extra move for the Undertaker (in this version, you can deliver multiple chokeslams to your opponent - you can't do this on the Playstation version) and plus the Saturn version was created so you can perform finishing moves whenever you want, whereas in the Playstation version they can only be delivered during one-on-one matches.  It doesn't matter how many people you are facing on the Saturn version, you can deliver finishing moves at the end of every match, if you'd like.

Either version is great though.You wouldnt expect it, but this game is good for all the wrong reasons. If you were to buy this, you wouldnt think the best wrestlers would be the the guys you never heard of right? By far the best finishing move in the game is called "The Alcapulco" by some guy whos name I cant remember. Its the most devastating move ive ever seen in wrestling, if he does this in real life to other people, I would suspect these people often become paralyzed.
I will attempt to describe the move, it starts off as a regular suplex, but once he has the guy verticle in the air, he releases him and comes down into a piledriver. So basicaly your being dropped directly on your head from 6+ ft in the air. A regular piledriver is like 2 ft and you have almost no momentum. Same with a tombstone piledriver. This tops both by alot.
Besides this one move, the game is average overall, not great, not bad. But this one thing made it better than average for me, worth a look in my opinion.The Good: scary fun gameplay with multiple enemies and atmosphere, great story both main and in play, good soundtrack for most part, added menu options to play, good replay with two characters
The Bad: voice acting and cutscenes despite good story, really bad soundtrack for the least part, repetitive puzzling of item get and push things, bad graphics for its time, Tank Controls!
The Neutral: secrets and unlocks such as costumes, difficulty is up and down, low health and ammo pickups, cam angles varythis is a pretty good game except for the music gets annoying sometimes such as the B1 floor of the mansion however the disc had a few scratches it was in good condition ..Super fun while simultaneously hard PS1 classic. This is a perfect game for the nostalgia gamer that secretly dreams of being a ninja.If only the movie was as good.  I've missed playing this game so much, glad to have it back in my collection.This games is one of those few titles where stealth killing is actualy fun. Tenchu had competant graphics for the time, though ugly by 2012 standards. The controls definately had issues but lets face it, this is the best Tenchu game to date. Tenchu has not alway done well as a franchise but this has its charming moments. Years later, the thing that sticks out most to me is the Soundtrack. There are certain games you hang onto for the BGM's. This is one of those games. The over the top stealth kill and trying to unlock certain items is well and good but the music is the thing that always calls me back. This games wonky graphics and play controls were never anything to write home about and only got worse with each consequential sequal and retread. The first one is the best in the series, in my opinion. Priority was never graphics or packaging. It was all about the fun.. and lovely soundtrack.This is a great stealth game and one of the first I ever played (besides Metal Gear Solid). I spent many hours on this just being sneaky. The main thing I liked about this is that it's not your typical run around hack and slash game. You actually had to think about what you're doing and what the outcome would be. The voice acting wasn't that great but it was at the time when this came out. I think most people's problem with this game (myself included) was the annoying camera angle at time but once you got used to it, it wasn't that bad. Definately a classic game in my book.I have been playing video games since pong (the 70's) and I have change with the time (bought a new system every year they come out)and love some of the new play station games but it's good to have some old favorites!! When I bought VOl 3 (just for Mrs. Pac-man)it was like WOW I forgot about pole position (ya nothing like nascar 2002), but that use to be my favorite when I was a kid & still is!! Funny thing is when I was 8yrs old I could never get past the 2nd screen in Galaxian Now 22 years later of playing video games, I still can't get past the 2nd screen even though I master Sypro (a 2000 game) in 2 days.
I have to admit druaga & phozon were never favorites when I was kid but there hoot to play now just seeing those out of date graphics, yep the graphic may be pathetic & game idea may seem simple but they are still challenging and a good reminder of what the good old days of video games were like.Namco Volume 3 is a well rounded collection of classic arcade favorites. It features Ms. Pacman, DigDug, Galaxian (which became addictive very fast after a few plays.), also..features Pole Position II, Phozen (which I had never heard of till this collection. It's not for everyone.), and last but not least we have..The Tower of Druaga. Obviously the best games are Ms. Pacman, Galaxian, and DigDug which each of these games are worth having individually, so having them all on one disc it's hard to go wrong. But wait there is one slight problem. When you go to the screen that allows you to change the dip switches..when they pop up they cover the menu and you don't know what your changing until you get back to the game, only to realize you have unknowingly changed your amount of lives to 1 and set your bonus on 10000000 or something to that effect. Maybe it's just me but I would have preferred a modern menu instead of the switches. Never~the~less 4 STARS.Maximum vintage gameage!  This game is packed with the best (and worst?) of the arcade days.  First, there's Ms. Pac-Man...though this might be the Japanese version; the Midway one played differently.  Galaxian is the precursor to Galaga; maybe it should've been on Volume 1 instead?  Phozon is based on the atom principle--you collect the various atoms (with your X-shaped thingy) to form various shapes matching the one(s) in the background.  Dig Dug, also back, features that guy in a suit digging in the underground, collecting fruits/vegetables, and dropping rocks on (or blowing up) Pookas [little bouncing orange creatures with big eyes] and Fygars [basically small dragons].  Pole Position II is the sequel to Pole Position; this time you have your choice of 4 tracks to race on.  I didn't play Tower of Druaga much as I don't care for that game.  Don't forget, you can also check out knowledge/history of the games in the various Museum virtual rooms; there's even a stack of NG magazine covers in the Library!  If you were addicted in the early 1980s, get addicted again...only this time you don't need quarters to play!Namco Museum 3 (third in a series of five collections of old arcade hits) hits some high and low spots, but is well worth the purchase price for three games.  The best of the lot is the translation of Ms Pac-Man - very faithful to the original.  Galaxian is highly addictive and equally faithful to the original.  Most people don't give Dig-Dug the credit it's due - it is very entertaining - even for adults.  I rather liked Dig-Dug in the arcades, and this is a good rendition.  On the other hand, "Phozon" and "Tower of Druga" are very forgettable, "Tower" the most worthless of the lot.  Still well worth buying just for the excellent Ms Pac Man....I found another ninja game called "Tenchu: Stealth Assassin". I read the back of it and it looked pretty good. When I tried it back at home, I was blown away! This game was really sweet. And after I tried the demo of "Ninja: Shadow of Darkness" that was in my game "Fighting Force", I realized I was lucky that I didn't waste my money on it.
I would never trade this game in for that other stupid one. This game is incredible. Going up to guys from behind and killing them with classic stealth kills like the throat slit and the stab from up front. Not only that, but the enemies that you fight in the game are awesome: samurai, ninjas, bears, wolves, dogs, and all kinds of demons. This game is totally awesome, if a bit slow though. It the jumping and fighting action were more like it was in "Devil May Cry", it would have been just like playing in a Japanese anime. Oh well, it was still a good game. If you're a true ninja fan, you must have this game... you won't regret it.Unlike the Corny ninja titles of years past like "Ninja Gaiden," "Ninja," and others of that manner.  Tenchu finally takes the  Ninja game to the next level.  Not just a run around and throw stars at  senseless, weak enemies, this game forces you to learn and master stealth  and the art of sneak attack.  The different weapons available keep the  onslaught more versatile, and the different sword attacks seem to stun the  viewer with there harsh and brutal images.  A great game , a great story  line, but still a few small problems.  even though you have a large variety  of weapons they are very limited.  some of the game may be confusing, and  not very straight forward as to what you are supposed to do, and you tend  to run into some very annoying camera views that seem to definately take  away from the game play.  But overall it's a very entertaining game which  i recommend to any action fan.Game works perfectly. Arrived as expected. I guess it's me, but i find this game rather difficult to beat.This is perhaps my favorite arcade collection of all time. The PS1 Namco Museum series is a very interesting twist on the arcade compilation formula. The innovative things about these games is that you have the option of walking around in a literal Namco Museum, and there are doors which represent each game, whats awesome about walking around in the museum is that each door for each game you go into has excellent build-up and atmosphere to get you pumped to play the game, and since it is a museum, each game's room has a plethera of interesting history of Namco, for example, in the Dig Dug room, you can click on these action figures that are on display and they represent real toys that Namco actually produced. There are also these sort of tips and tricks scattered on the walls of each room, as well as more history other than merchandise. Its a brilliant idea, and luckily, this game has an amazing roster of games. It has Ms. Pacman, Dig Dug which is my favorite arcade game of all time, Galaxian, Pole Position 2, Tower of Druaga, and Phozon which is a really strange sort of puzzle game. Lastly, because of personal bias, this game means a lot to me. It introduced me to Namco and some arcade classics, and some of the museum locations invoked wonder and curiosity in me and they make me happy whenever I see them. One last thing to note, you do not need to walk through the museum, you can quick start a game if you want to.With the release of Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back, Naughty Dog took just about everything from the first game and made it better.

Graphics (9/10) - The environments in this game look spectacular. The great use of color and detail, and the flat shading on Crash's character model really blend well together to make a game that aged very well.

Sound (6/10) - Similar to the first, the music in this one is average. It fits the game well, and each song does a good job representing each stage it's in, but the tunes were very unmemorable for me.

Gameplay (9/10) - The single greatest addition to the gameplay was the ability to use the analog pad on the Dualshock controller. That alone makes the game control much smoother. Other than that, the game plays just as good as the first.I like this game I looked at it and it was very cool I played levels like Turtle Woods and Snow Go I liked this because I liked fighting Cortex I watched the bonus levels on Youtube because I didn't want to do them. I like collecting crystals and gems I give this a 4 stars out of 5.Other then having to blow into the cartridge a lot when I first got it, it has run smoothly, now I just need to remember how to play.Not love but like. This rubber grip gives you alot of grip but needs to be smoothed out with a razor blade before use. I'm happy.This silicone cover has a very nice feel to it! Don't use this with dirty hands, dirt will stick to it. This is a ok product for your 360 controller.I had this game given to me for free years ago on the PC format. I liked it, but for some reason it crashed on me one day and I mustve done something to the disc, 'cause it never worked or would reinstall on any computer after that.

All these years later I've just picked it up, second hand, for the N64. And I must say there is not really any difference between the PC version and the 64 version, which is a good thing!

The only difference is in the movies. The PC and I 'spose gaystation version had the movies & ending in video form, where as the 64 replicates them the same way using the polygons of the 3d characters themselves. I have no complaint about it, I like it wether it's video form, or 3D poly form. They both still tell the same story. Except Reiko who just walks off into a portal.. the other versions show what happens when he goes into the portal, he puts on his Shoa Kahn mask!!!! shame thats not in it.

All the codes and moves where the same, and I like the fact that the PRACTIVE mode allows you to press pause and choose a list that displays all the characters moves, fatalitys and weapens etc... tho, i'm really kind of sick of the combinations of move lifts, which makes it great to just go into the options, highlight "continues #" and hold down block+run untill it takes you to the hidden menu where you can turn on auto fatalitys and stuff.

The only bad thing I can say about the game is what it should have had included. It needed to be fixed so that the auto fatalitys worked like in MK: TRILOGY (All platforms EXCEPT the N64 version) where each button freformed a diffrent fatality (2 fats, freindship, babality etc..) that about it.

This game is one of the best head to head fighter games. Unfortunatly the team at Crapcom decided to make a billion versions of Street Fighter for every other system... talk about over kill... but they didn't wanna make one for the 64, so thats there loss, which means Mortal Kombat is the best head to head fighter on the 64 if you ask me.

This game is actualy converted to the 64 straight from the arcade and then extras where added in after that, which makes it better then the arcade. Like the fact you can play as Goro & Noobsaibot, and a skinless character named Meat (go to GameFaq,com for the codes)

MK is the best head to head fighter on the N64 in this realm.Resident Evil: Director's Cut (1997). The PSX re-release of the 1996 survival horror game.

  Back when the PSX was first released, the system didn't have much in the way of standout games. Of course, there were a few noteworthy PSX launch games like Twisted Metal, Doom, and Tekken, but for the most part, the PSX didn't have anything outstanding yet. Thus, Resident Evil was made. Taking influences from the earlier survival horror series Alone In The Dark, Resident evil took all of its aspects to the next level and eventually became one of Capcom's most successful franchises to date, ranking just behind the Mega Man and Street Fighter games. In fact, the original RE game was probably the first PSX game to make the system worthwhile before other important games were released in the following years.

  Most everyone who's played the games already knows the story, but for those who haven't, here's a brief synopsis: A strange murder occurrence just outside of Raccoon City has caused Police officials to be suspicious, so they sent two Special Tactics and Rescue Squad (STARS) teams to go investigate. You play as either Jill Valentine or Chris Redfield, both of them surviving STARS members. The teams end up getting stuck in the mountains, so they eventually find themselves inside a huge mansion, where the STARS members discover numerous creatures such as zombies, mutilated dogs, giant spiders, and other monsters. These were all created due to Umbrella Corporation's disastrous T-Virus. As the game goes along, more important discoveries are made.

  Now let's talk about the game itself.

  Of the three PSX RE games, this one easily has the worst graphics. We're talking first-generation PSX graphics here, if that's any indication. The character models are all blocky and easily stick out from the otherwise highly detailed still-screen environments. These environments are navigatably 3D, but the camera angles sit at fixed 2D points, which can be both good and bad, depending on the situation. By bad, I mean that some angles hinder the view of the action. The monsters (especially the zombies) have very limited animation and models compared to the later games, and its limited engine prevents the game from having more than 3 monsters on the screen at one time (not including the crows). So the only real decent graphical aspects are the rendered environments. But even they don't quite compare to the detail in the following games.

  The sound effects are good for the most part. However, the zombies come off sounding more like moaning old men than actual monsters, and the voice acting... dear god? don't get me started. It's so hilariously bad that it's just fun to listen to. The dialogue doesn't help things at all along with the horrible acting which is bad even by B-movie standards. One of my friends almost died of laughter the last time I went through the game. The music on the other hand, is decent and suits the mood of each area appropriately. It's nothing special, but it does add to the overall suspense.

  The controls are something that most people either love or hate. It took me some time to get used to them, but now I have no troubles whatsoever. Most people that hate them don't seem to realize that RE isn't just an all-out action game, but rather an exploration puzzle type game with action segments. The controls were a bit rough here, though they have been more refined in later releases. I do admit though, that it does get very tedious backtracking to the item box again and again because you can't hold all the items you want to. Between the two playable characters Jill and Chris, I personally found Jill to be the better one to control because she has more inventory slots and weapons than Chris, although Chris's voice acting isn't quite as nerve-grating as hers is. Both characters each have their own sub-character that helps them along game, such as Barry who helps Jill, and Rebecca who aids Chris.

  Most people have said that this game was the scariest of all the RE games. I'm not sure I agree with that, but the atmosphere can be quite chilling at certain points. I suppose that the dogs breaking through the glass windows could've scared newbees to the series, but since I was introduced through RE2 and the fact that I've already played the MUCH freakier Silent Hill games, the original didn't scare me nearly as much as it should have. To the game's credit though, it does present the most puzzles, and a majority of them are real brain-benders. It's something that the series started to get away from as time went on. Plus, I thought that the game itself felt larger than all the others in the series, so it will take a while for new players to beat it. The challenge is also very high since there is very limited ammo to take out the creatures with. Even veteran RE fanatics still find the first game to be thoroughly challenging enough to come back for more.

  This version of the game is a director?s cut edition, but it?s really nothing special. All we get is an extra mode that is more challenging and features different outfits for the main characters, but if you already own the original, there?s no need to get this version. Apparently the Japanese version also had extra cut-scenes, so we were cheated! So much for it being a ?director?s cut?, huh?

  Although this game is extremely dated by today's standards, it's still worth checking out if you're a big fan of the series and want to see how the series got started in the first place. However, it's not really necessary now that a MUCH better remake is available on the Gamecube, so I suggest looking into that game instead. RECOMMENDED SPECIFICALLY TO FANS OF THE SERIES. NEW FANS SHOULD START WITH RE 2 OR THE GAMECUBE REMAKE OF THE ORIGINAL FIRST.THIS IS A LITTLE SUPERIOR TO ITS PLAYSTATION VERSION. THE GRAPHICS ARE BETTER, THE CONTROLS ARE A LITTLE BETTER, AND IT'S A LITLE MORE FUN. THIS IS A GREAT GAME. AND I THINK THIS SHOULD PLEASE ALL MORTAL KOMBAT FANS. IF YOU STILL HAVE YOUR NINTENDO 64 AND YOU DON'T HAVE THIS GAME, GET IT NOW!The flagship game of Playstation. This is what introduced millions of future gamers and PS-loyalists that Playstation wasn't messing around when it came to the seriousness that was their gaming system.

The gameplay is pretty straight forward. You run around 3D designed levels, breaking objects and defeating enemies all the while trying to progress to your arch-nemsis - Dr. Cortex - with the hope of saving your friend.

The game was met with great success and spouted off several sequels, but for some reason it doesn't really have a presence beyond PS2. There were hopes, and rumors, that Crash was once again going to be the flagship game for PS4, but that wasn't the case.

The game, although pretty average today, set the tone for future launch titles. I definitely suggest it if you are a PS historian or enthusiast.Capcom's legendary Resident Evil series and I have never really seen eye to eye. Though I own nearly every non-GameCube title in the undead thriller's history, I'd never been able to stand one long enough to actually complete it, right up until this past week. I'd always found the series to be misleading, disguising itself as a straightforward action title before slowing the gameplay down to a crawl and relying on endless puzzles and feats of memory to lengthen completion times. Time after time, I'd sit down with the goal of finally tackling these games, and time after time I'd get bored, stuck or distracted, leaving the game behind. I grabbed Resident Evil 3 when it was relatively new, and the title has sat, unplayed, on my shelf for years. That was, as I said, until this past week, when I sat down with renewed vigor and vowed to complete the first title in the series, even if it drove me to madness.
I'll make it really blunt; the story is absolutely terrible. The uninspiring characters meander their way through the events without a care in the world, occasionally encountering plot holes large enough to drive an oversized bus through. Nagging issues, such as why somebody would lock their home's single shotgun away in a room that's only accessible through a string of unrelated tricks and puzzles, aren't even touched upon. What if somebody breaks in, in the middle of the night? Is the owner of the mansion really going to have time to roll out of bed, run downstairs, jog to one side of the house, move around a couple statues, grab a key, run to another corner of the house, open a door, grab a fake shotgun, return to the original side of the house, unlock the doors and replace the "real" shotgun with the fake? I suppose the story does the right thing by failing to even mention these things, but they'll still tug away at the back of your mind as you play.
The graphics of the first Resident Evil really haven't aged well. Humans and zombies alike wander around stiffly and unrealistically, each one looking almost identical to the others. Polygon models are simple and blocky. Textures are pixelated and undetailed, looking more like a game assembled on the Super Nintendo's SuperFX chip than a PlayStation title. The series' characteristic pre-rendered backgrounds are poorly compressed and difficult to navigate in places, forcing players to turn out all the lights and squint their eyes just to make their way through the room. Merging still images with live polygons, Resident Evil plays like a strange amalgamation of the PC classics "Myst" and "Alone in the Dark."
The bread and butter of any console title, its gameplay, is the one area where you'll really learn to love or hate this series. Rather than bothering with camera angles and awkward environments, Capcom has instead sent players through a series of screens, occasionally containing interactive elements of their own. You'll control Jill or Chris from a series of dramatic angles, never in control of the camera itself. They'll enter a screen on the left side, mosey around a little bit, kill a couple zombies and leave the screen on the right side, immediately entering the next screen from another direction. Though it was a somewhat novel concept at the time of its release, this scheme brought with it numerous problems, the most notable of which was your interaction with enemies on the next screen. It's not uncommon to run full throttle off the edge of one screen, only to find a zombie waiting for you right at the edge of the next. It's a really cheap way to take a hit, and can mean a speedy, frustrating death in later stages.
Looking back, the control scheme employed here is notably revolutionary. Rather than applying a more traditional platformer's control layout, Resident Evil introduced gamers to a stationary rotation-based configuration. Left and right don't serve to strafe, they stop the character's movement altogether and rotate them left or right in place. Up moves you forward, and down moves backwards. Pressing R1 draws your weapon, and pressing X at the same time fires. It's a scheme that's more appropriate for the kind of stationary gunfighting and marksmanship that's defined the action portions of this series since day one.
Many of the tricks and puzzles buried within the mansion aren't so much brain teasers as they are time wasters. You'll realize what needs to be done within moments, but chances are good you won't have the piece needed to do so on your person. It took me about six and a half hours to beat the game for the first time as Chris, cautiously walking around, learning the position of the zombies, figuring out the puzzles, groaning as I realized the piece I needed was sitting in a chest, fifteen minutes away, and repeating that process. The second time through, playing as Jill and remembering which random item I would need where, I finished in three hours and twenty minutes. That's one heck of a variation.
The soundtrack to the first Resident Evil is really something that's difficult to categorize. Imagine, if you can, a blend of symphonic suspense, the song that plays when you push "demo" on a keyboard, and elevator music. That's Resident Evil's melody. The composer tried to capitalize on the few "jump out of your seat" moments the storyline provided, but surrounded by cheesy samples, monotonously repeating tunes and quality that sounds more like something on the N64 than the PSX, there was only so much that could be done.
On the large, this was a different kind of game than what we were getting at the time, something fresh. It wasn't a blockbuster, oh-my-god-get-me-the-sequel-now, mind numbing experience. I can understand why a game like this would deserve a sequel, but even today I couldn't have predicted the amount of games it would spawn.When it comes to Crash Bandicoot I'll be the first to admit playing the three main games on the PS1 in reverse order was probably a bad idea. The thing is Warped was the only one I had on hand when the urge to play these titles struck, and well, it completely spoiled me. I'm sure people are probably sick of me gushing over it but Warped was an excellent product and it was refined to the point of near perfection that I honestly wouldn't hesitate to give it a ten out of ten in conversation or review.

The problem with Cortex Strikes Back is it isn't as polished as you'd expect. I don't mean this in a superficial way like graphic fidelity (which is superb for when it was released) but a "streamline all the cheap-shots out of the experience" way. The level of cheapness ingrained in Crash 2's gameplay is simply astounding and it comes from a variety of places. Things like the hit detection on the belly flop are in dire need of work and the bonus areas are usually the furthest thing from fun when that's the exact opposite of what they should be. Worse yet are the game's hidden paths which are essentially sorry excuses to throw everything but the kitchen sink at the player. The kicker to is just when you think you're done and your guard is down - that's when they throw the kitchen sink at you.

The above situation is a real shame because when you get right down to it Cortex Strikes Back is a beautiful game. The level design and music are excellent as are the graphics which I feel even give Nintendo 64 games a run for their money. But every time the game turns a corner and those memories of the game's stubbornness start to fade something (again, there is always something) shows up and makes it take center stage once again. Compounding the situation is the fact there really isn't enough variety in the levels. Seriously, if I see another level with the words "Crash" or "Bear" in it I am going to scream and the same goes for the jet pack levels.

Annoyances aside, if your a fan of the PlayStation having the three main Naughty Dog-developed Crash titles in your library is a no-brainer. If you haven't played them and want to do yourself a huge favor and play them in order so you'll be able to appreciate the improvements each sequel brings with it. Unlike some franchises the first three Crash games get better and bolder with each step. As for the game being discussed here, Crash 2 leaves a lot to be desired to in my book but then I can't really say I dislike it either. I do wish it was a little better (polished) than where it stands now but then that probably a part of why Warped is so good. So while I would definitely warn others of game's cheaper side I'd still recommend it to anyone with an interest in platformers.Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back is the second in a long line of Crash Bandicoot's. This Game is almost totally flawless (but hey, every game can't be perfect but this game comes damn close.)

Plot: Crash is back kidnapped to help Cortex collect crystals. 9/10

Gameplay: The Gameplay is what you'd expect in a platformer. There are five warp rooms with twenty-five levels. You have to finish each level by collecting all three crystals for that level. If you run out of lives you lose and can return to the last level played. 8/10

Sound: The sound is very good and has a nice soundtrack. 8/10

Graphics: The graphics were high quality back in 1997. They still are surprising for today's standards, They work and are eye appealing. 7/10

Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back is one of the best Naughty Dog PlayStation 1 game. Easily put, Crash Bandicoot 2 is WAY better than the first.
8/10This Director's Cut is the only version of this game you should own, simply because it supports the Analogue joysticks on the Playstation controller. The control in the other versions is impossible at times, and a bugger to learn if you are a first time player.
The game by itself is excellent. Lot's of puzzles, and lots of Zombies to shoot down. There are times (many of them, actually) where you much be careful how many zombies you shoot, because you can run low on bullets very quickly. The story is standard for any Survival Horror game: A group of soldiers are locked in an old mansion that is infested with zombies. An evil company has eperimented with a chemical that turns people into zombies, and the fallout turns the WHOLE TOWN into zombies. To survive, you must make your way through the mansion, and solve all the puzzles. This is definitely a challenge, and one that can be frustrating at times, but rewarding once completed.
Here are the pros. The graphics are superb. The detailing of the zombies and the surroundings give you are real sense of dread, and yes, the blood flow is well detailed, it sprays when you are wounded. The music is ominous and ambient, giving just the right mood to the situations you come across. The story is also well put together, even though anyone who has seen George Romero's "Living Dead" trilogy (and what horror fan hasn't?) can get a sense of deja vu. All these elements make this a game well worth getting.
Now for the cons. This game is not the toughest game for the Playstation, but it can be darn frustrating when you get stuck. Sometimes, a puzzle is very tricky and requires you to back-track just to see if you missed anything. This adds much more time to the game, but not in a good way. There is also the frustration of running low on bullets when there are three zombies coming towards you. Each zombie requires about three bullets each to finish them off, but bullets are so scarce that you must conserve. Also, the acting and dialogue is so hammy that it is comical, and you feel compelled to just skip through it so you can get back to killing zombies.
Overall, this is a great game with a few shortcomings. But then again, nothing is perfect. If the Survival Horror concept sounds appealing, then you should check this one out. The "Resident Evil" series has become the benchmark of Survival Horror much like "Final Fantasy" has for the RPG genre.This is where the epic Resident Evil series began. The first adventure see's you tackle zombies, snakes and dogs in a deserted mansion, which is very atmospheric. Don't be put off by the relatively poor voice acting and cut scenes, bear in mind that this was made in 1995/1996 and so for the times it's pretty good. This is a classic game that spawned one of the best series' of games on the Playstation. The only thing preventing this from being a 5 star game is the slighty disapointing ending. But this is only a minor flaw, and this is still one of the best games on the Playstation.Since last night I've been waiting to do this review, because I've been studying the exact differences from RE2 and RE Directors Cut. This review will really help for someone who has played RE2 but is wondering what RE DC is about. Well, you've came to the right place.  First of all, here are the facts:
1. Each zombie takes 5 shots NO MATTER WHAT. (with the Beretta)
2. Jill is a blonde all though she doesn't look like it (a very dumb blonde)
3. BARRY HAS A MAGNUM AND HES PROUD!!!
4. You have to kill zombies up to four times if you leave the room when you shoot them down. (that means they come back alive once they are dead and you leave the room...the just pop up!)
5. This game has hilarious dialogue!
  Well, speaking of dialogue, the grammar is also very bad...and I mean VERY bad. Examples are: (when you pick up the 1st floor map)  "You got the 1st floor map"  RE2 says "you've taken the 1st floor map" that makes more sense.  "You got the acid rounds"...funny sometimes. Also, what I found is that Jill doesn't know what blood is. Barry is inspecting a pool of red liquid on the dining room floor. Jill comes over and has the nerve to ask "What is it?" and she stays there and studies it...??? Barry replies with "I THINK it is blood. I hope this is not Chris's blood!"  And they have exaggeration at the completely wrong times. But when there is a big monster coming they just talk "wow. its a monster. what do we do?"  and when there is like a door that doesnt open (during movie scenes) they say "THIS DOOR WONT OPEN!! WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO??" Also, a really hilarious part is when Barry hands Jill the acid rounds Jill says that he should keep them for himself, and Barry replies "No that's okay...I have THIS!!!" And holds up his Magnum...I laughed my head off...he sounded so stupid! No offence to the makers of RE or anything but it is just so funny!
  Another fact is that the camera angles are bad, but the puzzles are harder. Hmmm? Resident Evil is a very very very good game...but it is just the dialogue and camera angles...ive been talking it down but now its time to tell you that it is DEFINATELY worth getting, despite it's happy mediums.
So theres a few final things I have to say here:
1. Barry has a magnum 2. Wesker has shades 3. And the three zombies at the top of the stairs above the M Storeroom 1F sound like cows.
  Cheers! ~JonglesThis game is great. It has so many improvements as opposed to the first game. In this game you can high jump, crawl, slide, ride on a jetboat, and fly with a jetpack! It's a huge adventure starring... the Bandicoot! The main challenge of the game is to get 100 percent by collecting gems and crystals. The level isn't officially complete until you get the crystal. Oh, and you are gonna need a memory card because this game is fairly big. Unless you're a really hardcore game, then you won't need it, but... it's recommended. In conclusion, this is a fantastic game, and if you love this, make sure you get Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped!Good silicone protective for the price. Fits well on the joystick.
I extremelly recomend it, since its up to task.This squeal to the original Crash Bandicoot game lives up to its name. With great gameplay, levels, and new characters, you'll be setting in front of the TV for a while.When the first Crash Bandicoot came out in 1996 I was amazed on an old game and game system could have great 3-D graphics and such great game play but it was kind hard. But in this one it's not as hard because you can crouch, slide and crouch jump so you can jump even higher! But the graphics are more cartoonish then they are on the first one. But this one had some levels I liked better than on the first one. YOU SHOULD PLAY THIS GAME!!!It doesn't hold up to time, but I can't blame it for that. I honestly bought this for my wife. She said this game was a big part of her childhood. So I decided to buy it, she couldn't get past the first stage and then she gave up and its been home to dust and lint, I know this isn't a review and more of a rant, but its a solid platformer from the pastLets go back in time to one of my favorite PlayStation icons: Crash Bandicoot. For those who don't know, Crash Bandicoot is a fictional Eastern Barred Bandicoot who was genetically enhanced by the evil Doctor Neo Cortex who then escaped and set out to stop the evil scientist and his plans. Crash would appear in many games, but the ones I hold dear are the original three on the first PlayStation: Crash Bandicoot, Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back and Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped. With that said, lets take a look at the first one in the series.

The first Crash Bandicoot game was released way back in 1996 with Naughty Dog developing the game, Sony Computer Entertainment publishing it and Universal Interactive Studios being the distributors. It was a PlayStation exclusive, but would eventually get re-released as a PS One Classic on the PlayStation Store to be played on the PlayStation 3. The game is definitely kid friendly and appropriate for all ages, Crash Bandicoot is basically a Mario ripoff but a very good one none the less who came up with several original ideas. The story goes that Crash Bandicoot was created by Doctor Neo Cortex and his henchmen Doctor Nitrus Brio. Crash escapes the experiments but leaves his girlfriend Tawna in the process and Crash is swept up to an island and sets out to go rescue her and stop the villains. Whats weird is that this is the only Crash Bandicoot game on the PlayStation in which Tawna appears in, I don't know why though, its definitely unusual. But nonetheless, lets continue with the game.

The first thing that stands out are the graphics, the graphics for 1996 looked fantastic, they were even better than Super Mario 64 on Nintendo 64 which was released a month later. It definitely gets an A+ for presentation. The game was a huge hit and was the first non-Japanese game to achieve commercial success in the country. Now, lets discuss the actual gameplay.

The game is nonetheless a platformer in which you control Crash Bandicoot across three islands to defeat Doctor Cortex and rescue your girlfriend. The game is split into levels with one basic goal: get to the end without dying. You start out with four lives and its one hit deaths from being touched by enemies or falling into water or a pit. Yeah, its weird how water kills Crash even though he fell in the water at the introduction and was floating away to one of the islands and survived. Why is it that these characters who are very athletic cant figure out how to swim? I hate games that do this because when you see water, you're never sure if the game will allow you to swim. Its stupid and whats weird is that in the third game Crash does swim underwater with scuba gear. So really the game is a huge contradiction of itself.

You can get more one ups by finding them across levels or collecting 100 apples which are basically the coins of Super Mario Bros, but the apples are everywhere in this game so its really easy to get a one up, you could literally get at least three lives per level. Attack moves include jumping in the air and landing on an enemy or using a spin move in a tornado fashion to knock enemies off-screen, I like that, even if its a rip-off of Super Mario World. You also find this Mask that helps you on your journey, if you find it, it gives you an extra hit point, but you don't actually wear the mask it just follows you. If you get three masks without losing one, you turn invincible for a brief time much like the Starmans in Super Mario Bros.

The boxes are also a rip-off of Super Mario Bros. in which they have question marks on them and you have to destroy the boxes to gain prizes. But not all boxes are the same, there are boxes without question marks, arrow boxes that propel you in the air, boxes with exclamation marks which makes boxes appear out of nowhere, checkpoint boxes that act as a save spot for the level and TNT boxes which explode after three seconds when you jump on them, whatever you do, don't spin attack them because they will immediately explode.

A strange feature in these boxes is that you can get Tawna tokens that act as a bonus level so you can get some extra fruit and one ups. Whats weird is that Tawna is in this level but she doesnt let you rescue her for some odd reason, but whats even stranger is that completing the bonus level is the only way to save the game or get a password. I don't understand why early PlayStation games didn't allow you to save anytime you want. Every video game that can support a memory card should do that, I hate writing down passwords so I can continue. But the password is only eight digits and the main buttons on the PlayStation controller act as the characters so its at least not a long and annoying password.

If you complete an entire level without losing a life and manage to destroy all the boxes, youll get rewarded with a gem, this was a flaw with the game because it makes the game way too damn hard and every future Crash Bandicoot game let you get the gem even if you die as long as you break all the crates. Some gems can act as platforms to help you get across areas that are impossible to reach, much like the vine in Super Mario Bros.

Now while this game has some flaws, its still a good game overall, its not as good as the second and third game, but its definitely fun and enjoyable. The creativity is good, has a good challenge and the graphics are fantastic. If you have a PlayStation Network account, give this game a chance, its only $6 on the PlayStation Store so its not expensive or anything. Its definitely a classic.

FINAL RATING:  8 out of 10This is one of my favorite games from the playstation series. When it first came out in 1996, needless to say I was blown away by the 3D directional jumping. It was my first playstation game. Of course there were some issues that I had with the game but it was the first of its kind and it paved the way for improvements. Some reviews have said how the game is hard. I agree to a point. I started playing it when I was in 5th grade and I still have a copy today but at that time it was a new concept to grasp playing a game with 3D controls versus simpler 2D controls from the Nintendo or Sega. But after a while and many Bandicoots being eaten, crushed, boiled in acid, drowning, or falling into dark abysses I came out on top. There are some levels that are still difficult for me (Lights Out for example) but I relish in the challenge it brings.

Too hard for young kids some people say? So was the original Mario Bros from 1985 at one point. Ignoring secret jumping techniques with turtle shells, lives were hard to come by and you definitely needed them for the later worlds. In Crash Bandicoot they practically give lives away because the levels are fairly challenging throughout the game. For example, Boulder Dash wiped out the 50 some lives I had accumulated the first time got to that level.

I agree with other people about the way that you save in that it is kind of annoying but we take that for granted today anyway. In prior games, like Mario 1985, if you got a game over it was back to the beginning of the world you died in. In this game, it's back to the last level you were at before you saved. Maybe the creators were trying to make it a challenging game by doing it that way. In that I say they succeeded.

For a platform gamer, this game has a nice blend of 3D motion with 2D side scrolling in a colorful environment that was pretty good visually for the graphics at the time. It definitely took you to a different world. The music for the various levels was appropriate and entertaining. Come on, remember Hog Wild? Good times riding that boar! It had a very linear type of progression but it was not too unlike Super Mario World with the coin shaped levels on the overworld map. The bonus rounds were indeed difficult but you could always replay them, minus the saving bonuses once you saved, and never lose lives in the bonus rounds. Aku aku was there in my time of need, especially when toxic barrels were bouncing my way. He is a different but unique take on the power ring or mushroom, flower, star buffs from the other iconic heroes. I am not saying Crash Bandicoot is better than other platform games before him, but he is unique and has his own style that improved in the titles that came after. I give this game a 9 out of 10 or 4.5 stars.Crash's 1st game (as I reviewed) is my favortie debut game, but his sequel blows me away.  There's one reviewer who says this is an improvement on the original with some sassy style.  They're %100 correct.  The game's best improvements and worst flaws are all I will list, because you already know where I stand if you've read my review on the 1st game (and go check it out if you haven't).

Best Improvement: Saving System.  This allows you to save at anytime, so you're not going to have to get off (becuase your parents said so, of course) without saving all your hard and handy work and having to have to do it all over again.

2nd Best Improvement: You have 5 levels to choose from at anytime.  You don't have to go in order.

3rd Best Improvement: More moves.  Crash is looking good with all his new stunts.

4th Best Improvement: Vehicles.  Crash gets to drive some neato vehicles, including my favorite, the jet pack.

5th Best Improvement: Greater and better bosses, (including N. Gin).

6th Best Improvement: Bigger, Better, and More secret levels.

7th Best: New characters.  I'm lovin' the new addition of characters, including Coco Bandicoot, Crash's sister (whom I think should've been in the 1st game).

8th Best Improvement: It's easier to collect gems, and there's a new addition, crystals.

Worst Flaw: Well, it would be nice if Tawna hadn't suddenly disappeared.  I think she should've been crucial to the entrtie series, not just the 1st game.

2nd Worst Flaw: You can't revisit bosses without a secret code.  You should be able to revisit bosses without having to have to look for secret codes to do so.

So, those are all the improvements and flaws.  As you can see, better the the 1st game, by far.This game is really fun. I love everything about it besides having to search the worlds sometimes to find all the levels, but it's part of the game and it does help add to when you defeat it. If you love games like Crash Bandicoot, Mario, Zelda, or anything related you'll probably really like this game.Let me just say that this game looks cool but in case you don't know what this game is about read this: okay N cortex is back...... to save the world? And he is asking his rival Crash? Or is this something to trick Crash? Find out in Crash Bandicoot 2.This game has everything the first part lacked. It has even better graphics. This was the first one of the crash series I tried, and it was fun. Before that, I was hooked on fighting games, like street fighters, and tekken, but they are not that fun after playing it a 100 times or so. In this game you can spend as much time without losing interest.
It is, more or less, like the first part. There is aku-aku, boxes to crash, gems (more difficult), new bosses after each floor. And by the by, this game is divided into 5 floors, each floor with 5 doors, each door with a different adventure. You can finish the game, like I did the first time, without collecting gems, but it is not that fun. Hint: If you break all the boxes of one level you are rewarded a gem. There are hidden levels for some gems, you would have to consult the internet for it. Good luck in that.
In this part you can save after each level, it is easier in that respect. I find the gems easier to collect than in the first forbidding game. The designs of the adventure is by far better than the firs.
The story line is change a little bit. Instead of the "Pamela Anderson" of a lover Crash had, he gets a more geeky "Meg Ryan" of a sister. Dr Cortex is still missing things up. The assistant from the first part does not appear except when he tries to communicate Crash to warn him from Cortex. You want to know more? Get the gems first.
There is also a sixth hidden floor. You would have to reach it by a trick, and again check the net for that.
The game was the best I have ever tried. It makes my life harder, since I cannot find better games to play anymore. It will make you look for other adventures of Crash.after falling from ballon cortex will crash into a dark cave which cantains power now crash is heading into five warp rooms and new bosses like tiny,komodo bros and n.gin. now crash can even fly in the jet pack."Crash Bandicoot 2: Cortex Strikes Back" was a large step up from the first part. This game's graphics, music, gameplay, and even story were much better than in the first. But it's kind of weird how Crash Bandicoot doesn't end up staying with Tawna Bandicoot and instead ends up living with his little sister, Coco Bandicoot. Well, at least Coco has the ability to speak, unlike her big brother. The voice acting changed dramatically as well, and for the better(Dr. Neo Cortex's new voice was much cooler and evil-sounding). If you liked the first Crash game, get this one. Although it's more difficult(especially in gathering Crystals and Gems), it's really fun!This is not the first one of these I have had, in fact this is about my 8th. There are many different skin types and different skin makers, so you have to judge each on it's own merit. My controller skin arrived today, well ahead of expected delivery, just as described solid black and silicone. Fit is just perfect, and installation had no problems. Good comfortable smooth texture, while still providing a much better grip than on the hard slick controller plastic. I like to clean my game equipent regularly, and I always clean even new items before using. This is a great way to test the quality of the item, I cleaned the skin using isopropanal alchohol, no gumming (like you get with lower grade skins)and no color bleed onto the rag, this tells me it is definitly silicone not some rubber stuff. Once on the controller grip is good, comfort is good, feel is natural. I am very pleased with this controller skin, I have been needing to get one for my extra controller. I will definitly be ordering a few more later, a friend has a birthday coming up.This game has lots of advantages. The last game was good,but this one is better. The reason I gave it a four star rading is because it's hard. It's possible to do it without the guide,but impossible without a memory card. But you can like it. A good buy.I remember when I first got this game with a Playstation console in early 1998. It was a great phenomenon then, because the Crash Bandicoot series was able to bring some new life to the platforming genre of gaming with its 2D and 3D interchangeable levels.

Crash must go through 25 levels and 6 bosses in this game, but unlike the later games in the series, Crash must tackle the levels chronologically by progressively going through 3 islands.

While the gameplay is fun and interesting, the game has its flaws as well. First off, you can only save when you either complete a bonus round (which can only be access one time in each level) or when you collect a gem for destroying every crate in the level. This gets frustrating, because in order to get each gem, you must complete the level and break the boxes without losing a life, plus the fact that colored gems are required to complete certain levels. If I were you, I wouldn't worry about the box gems just yet and just try to find the bonus in the newer level you are at if you want to call it a day. You may have to do the newer level again, which tends to be a flaw.

Despite this, I highly recommend this for fans of previous platforming games like Donkey Kong Country and Sonic the Hedgehog. While the series would improve, this is not a bad start.This is a classic game that I come back to every now and again. The graphics are great and the content is really satisfying. But I do have a complaint of the actual difficulty of the game.

1st island - The easiest to beat if you have all of the different coloured gems. The hardest level here is Native Fortress.

2nd island - Slightly harder but still fun. The hardest level here is Sunset Vista.

3rd island - The most frustrating. I spent half an hour to beat Generator Room with Perfect and another half an hour with Toxic Waste. The hardest level here is Slippery Climb.

I don't get why a kid's game can get difficult to beat. I mean, I own mature games like Jak 2 and Oblivion and they are a whole lot easier by comparison. If you are looking for a challenging game, this is your cup of tea. But if you want a kid's game that you can just glide through, I recommend Spyro.Have had this skin for almost 2 months and so far there are no signs of wear or tear which is good. Its sticky just enough to be grippy but not overly so. It protects the controller fairly well. Keeps it from getting dirty as fast especially if you have a white controller.

Overall it feels good and is comfortable even in long play periods. The only problem I have is there is annoying little piece up by the triggers on both sides. Its right in between the trigger and the bumper buttons and there is no tension on the piece so when you switch between the bumper and triggers it can sometimes flip up and your finger will catch it. Not really a deal breaker or a big deal or anything since I plan on cutting it off anyways. Plan on buy another so far after this one falls apart. Will update my review if it doesnt last long.Crash Bandicoot's my favorite video game character and all his work is genius.  I'm looking forward to his latest video game installment, Crash Tag Team Racing.  The game's graphics are good, the gameplay itself sounds amuzing, and the trailer (on GameSpot) prove how visually stunning it's going to be too.  But, Crash's humble beginning is not the same as Mario and Sonic's were.  It was much better, more creative, and bigger.

Mario's was just an arcade game.  It was hard, but it didn't take to long to master it, and I don't even know if there was a boss.  Sonic's debut was better then Mario's.  A game you could play without spending money, good levels, challenging, better bosses, and a special ending you could view if you collected all the items necessary.  But, these debuts lacked what Crash's had.  Most challenging, best bosses, better secret ending, and most of all, a 3-D world to play in.

Crash's world is not fully 3-D in this game (in fact up till Crash Twinsanity, none of them have been), but it is very good as far as it goes.  The VIRTUAL world looks like the REAL world.  That's one of the game's strongest points.  The controls are very solid and Crash responds amazingly well to your commands.  This spoiled me.  I'd play a Crash game and then go play something else with looser controls and be upset by the lack of response.  I became versatile after a while though.  Crash lacks moves in this game, but he has more then Sonic and/or Mario had in their debut games.  Crash has 3, Mario and Soinc only had 1.  Crash's moves are running, jumping, and spinning.  The spinnig move is an extremely creative thing.  To make up for Sonic's spin, Naughty Dog brought out the bigger and better guns.  Crash's spin is much easier to control and is much more effective.  It also doesn't threaten you in a strange, almost indescribable way.  Sonic's spin reqired that you dash in the direction that you were facing before you started spinning.  Sega called this the spin dash.  This could throw you to your death.  Not Crash's.  Crash could move or stay still when spinning.  Note: Soinc didn't have the spin dash in his debut game.  Mario and Sonic's jumping, I'll admit, was better.  They were tighter then Crash.  Their direction could be changed much, much easier then Crash when jumping.  Crash jumps higher though.  Crash runs kind of slow, especially when you need to get something done. But he's slower in Crash Twinsanity.  Crash's camera control is hardly ever a problem.  Every once in a while you'll have to strain your eye a little, but it's still a better camera then Soinc's.  Mario's is best out of all, though, 'cause you could see the entire level all at once.

As for the other features of the game, they're pretty outstanding.  The levels are big and challenging.  There's also secret levels in Crash.  I've never seen anything like that in Sonic 1 or Donkey Kong, have you?  No, I didn't think so.  Crash's biggest flaw is the saving system.  In the game, you must collect 3 tokens of Crash's girfriend's head (hidden in the level) to get to a bonus area.  You must get to the end of the Tawna (Crash's girlfriend's name is Tawna) Bonus Round, touch Tawna (who's just standing there), and then exit the Tawna Bonus Round via a warp pad in order to save.  If you don't do exactly what I said had to be done in order to save, you don't get to save. Not fair at all.  But, it's still better then Sonic 1 or Donkey Kong, 'cause you can't save at all in those games.  There are also two other kinds of bonus rounds in the game, The Cortex (main bad guy of the game) Bonus Rounds and the Brio (Cortex's right-hand man) Bonus Rounds.  You can't save in these bonus rounds, even if you get to the end of them without falling off the platforms.  Oh and get this, there aren't Tawna Bonus Rounds in all the levels, so you don't have a chance to save if your parents tell you to get off and you're in a level like Hog Wild where there's no bonus rounds.  Big flaw.  The 2nd biggest flaw is the way you have to collect gems.  In the game you must collect 32 (I think; don't quote me on that number, because I'm not sure) gems in order to see the secret ending.  However, it's a little too hard to collect them all.  I understand most people think the game's not hard enough, but I think it's a little too hard.  To collect a gem, you must destroy every single crate in a level and get to the end without losing a life.  I'm all for destroying every crate, but I think you should be able to lose a life and still get the gem.  It should only matter if you destroy all the boxes.

So, if you're wanting to compare Mario and Sonic to Crash, I'd say Crash all the way.  And, as you can see, if you're reading this, Crash's 1st game was much better then Mario and Sonic's.  I say Crash is best, no matter what anyone else tells me.Alright, so I just used naughty for the play on the company name, but it got your attention, aparently, so...

This is the oldest Naughty Dog title I've played (as far as I know), however it has a lot of the issues which I've noticed from their games in the past.  Nasty difficulty spikes (the eight or so level should be closer to the end) and the 'one path to the end of a platformer' standard which Super Mario World truely broke when it came out take the one star out of this otherwise superb game.

While the graphics are fantastic for PS1, and moderate at worst for PS2, sometimes I find it hard to tell where, exactly, Crash is going to land.  Also this very much 3D platformer has 'side scrolling' sections where I become convinced that pressing down will make crash duck, not fall into a bottomless pit, water, or whatever else is in the foreground.  Saving can sometimes prove difficult, although, if you look in the right places, you can find a way to save after every significant area.  Also, often after completing certain difficult areas, you'll be able to do them again at any point you desire, good for getting the games bonuses.

I haven't finished the game yet (I'm only half way through), so anything in this review could change, although it's unlikely.  Most Naughty Dog games are consistantly good or bad in every way.

Anyway, the bonuses are usually earned by getting through a level opening EVERY box in the level without losing a single life.  Others are given through bonus levels, etc.

A very great game for a great price.I tried the Crash 2 PlayStation game about 1998 and it was delightful. It was, in fact, so delightful that I looked around for the first part to start from the proper point.
When I started playing the first part, I was disappointed by the difference of the story, but, still, It was a nice game.
The graphics are excellent. The story is original. It speaks about a genetically engineered dog, named Crash, that resembles human beings. This genetic procedure was done by Dr Cortex (or more precisely by his degraded assistant). Then Dr Cortex goes on the produce a new female version of this Crash. Of course crash falls in love with her. Dr Cortex, being a wicked soul, parts between the two and then Crash needs to go through so many obstacles to reach his lover.
So many levels are divided into islands, and each set of levels is followed by a bad boss. Some are hard and some are easy. It depends in your skill in such games. The story is concluded by a battle between this Crash and Dr Cortex. If you win then you got it.
And to complicate life even more, the designers introduced the concept of gaining gems. If you get all the gems you can continue the game in a new fashion. I aint saying it 'cause I don't want to spoil things for you. To attain these gems is a difficult task. As for me, I got them but after being kicked in the teeth for it. You should not even dream of getting the gems in order of levels. No, mon ami, some times you have to go to a certain advanced level to get a "green gem," for instance, to get the gem in the, say, fourth level. You would have to check the net for the tricks, dirty if I may, and the hidden places. Good luck in that.
There is "aku-aku," which is a mask that is considered as an extra life if you get touched by any of the enemies. Take 3 aku-akus and you become invincible for some seconds and you kill any of the enemies by a mere touch.
Of course, there are saving stations. You do not get to save after every level. This is a drawback. Saving stations are also level you have to jump, crush, step on dynamite, and so on. If you fall down, you cannot save, you have to go to the next saving station. It is hare, I am telling you.
The game is great, and if you win with a 100 per-cent then you are the man!
Crash 2 (5 Stars):
The Best Game Ever:
This game has everything the first part lacked. It has even better graphics. This was the first one of the crash series I tried, and it was fun. Before that, I was hooked on fighting games, like street fighters, and tekken, but they are not that fun after playing it a 100 times or so. In this game you can spend as much time without losing interest.
It is, more or less, like the first part. There is aku-aku, boxes to crash, gems (more difficult), new bosses after each floor. And by the by, this game is divided into 5 floors, each floor with 5 doors, each door with a different adventure. You can finish the game, like I did the first time, without collecting gems, but it is not that fun. Hint: If you break all the boxes of one level you are rewarded a gem. There are hidden levels for some gems, you would have to consult the internet for it. Good luck in that.
In this part you can save after each level, it is easier in that respect. I find the gems easier to collect than in the first forbidding game. The designs of the adventure is by far better than the firs.
The story line is change a little bit. Instead of the "Pamela Anderson" of a lover Crash had, he gets a more geeky "Meg Ryan" of a sister. Dr Cortex is still missing things up. The assistant from the first part does not appear except when he tries to communicate Crash to warn him from Cortex. You want to know more? Get the gems first.
There is also a sixth hidden floor. You would have to reach it by a trick, and again check the net for that.
The game was the best I have ever tried. It makes my life harder, since I cannot find better games to play anymore. It will make you look for other adventures of Crash.This is definitely one of the best games you can find. Crash, a bandicoot as his name applies, is out to rescue his girlfriend Tawna from his arch nemesis, the evil Dr. Cortex. There are about 30 levels in the whole game to go through, in which range from extremely easy to almost impossible. The game is probably the hardest of all the Crash games, so anybody who wants a challenge is in for a treat. The graphics range. In some, the graphics will have you staring, and in some, you just plain will not be impressed, but I'm not saying anything about that. This game has a high amount of replay value as well, and for some levels you will need strategy. The only reason I gave this 4 stars is because of the horrible save system. You can only save if you get to Tawna bonus rounds, (common) and complete them, (not too difficult), or collect a Gem, (medium difficulty to almost impossible.) If you can overlook the save system, then you've got yourself a great game.Plays great! The box had a crack in it though, I'm asuming that was just from shipping. Other than that it came with the art, manual, and even the ad page that advertises other Naughty Dog games.I got a great deal on this used PS1 game. My girlfriend plays this classic game and enjoys it a lot. She's not much of a gamer. The disc seems to be in great condition with no scratches and plays perfectly. There's a few tiny "cracks" within the inner ring of the disc, but this is common and DOES NOT affect the actual disc itself. It seems like an alright game to me, just not my style, which is why I gave it a 4/5. But a lot of people seem to like this game. It's a great kids game as well.Crash Bandicoot is one of my oldest games on my oldest system, the Playstation. Still, I have never grown tired of playing levels, which used to be challenges that now I pass with a breeze. The levels are awe inspiring. Water is flowing without a crack, the jungle is incredibly lush, and the characters have no mistakes from their hair to their sneakers. Story is interesting too-you have to save Crash's girlfriend Tawna from Dr. Neo Cortex. The only disadvantage is the limited controls-jump and spin. This game brought two sequels and two other games that involve racing and mini games. No wonder.This was a fun 3D platform adventure game.  Croc may look cute and easy to play but It was definitely challenging even for veteran video game players.  The game is very bright with colorful backgrounds, with lots of stomping and jumping on crates and boxes.  The boss fights were very well done and exciting.  The controls took a little bit of getting used to but the gameplay overall was responsive and fun.  The game is appropriate for all ages, and the bonus levels are fun and interesting.

The game does take some strategy and you have to be very quick in several parts of the game.  It is in the same spirit of the Mario 64 game but not as polished or well refined.  The camera angles do make it hard to maneuver Croc in some parts of the game which add to the challenge.  The replay value is pretty high.  I spent a lot of time playing this game trying to get the 100 percent to make it to the true boss of the game.  It provided hours of fun as well as a lot of frustration but overall it was a very rewarding experience.  The game should be fairly cheap now, the game had a battery pack save feature which saved your progress on the memory card.  If your looking for something a little bit different than Mario this is a nice game to try out.

Overall I would rate it a solid 4 stars its not a perfect platformer, but the game was made with a lot of care, the developers did a really good job.  Collecting all the Gobbos is fun but some of the stages will drive you nuts.Graphics: 8/10 - These are often stunning but at times a bit murky. Mostly they are really fabulous to look at, though, in every scene the makers of Crash have put in a lot of effort.
Sound: 7/10 - The animals could've made some more sounds but the creatures that talk do it clearly and well. Mostly the score is playing in the background so there isn't much sound to be heard.
Value: 9/10 - Value for money indeed! Once you've finished, you'll want to start all over again!
Overall: 8/10 - Great game with an excellent reputation. Crash 2 and 3 surpass it slightly, but this is still an easy-on-the-brain, fun and original idea.When I got this for my early birthday,I didn't expect that the character would be so cute! Crash is adorable,which will get you hooked on for about an hour,the fun for another,and the hard for minus a second. Even though it is difficult,you'll enjoy looking in those eyes,and playing.I love this game. Back when I was eight years old I got this on PC and played this game until it became muscle memory. Playing this on PS1 is even more fun thanks to the benefit of a controller.

I looked up reviews for this game and I was surprised to see it blasted by many reviewers. They claimed it was too easy or too hard and painfully awkward to control. That is not the case. It is actually a very smart game that teaches you how to play in the first level without a single word of dialog or a single segment of text.

My four year old cousin can pick this up and play it easily thanks to the intuitive design. The music is fun. The controls are smooth. And the game is just simply fun.

There is little completion bonus with only challenge maps and an extra boss as a reward. But the levels are fun an memorable. The volcanic levels, snow levels, desert levels, and castle levels are extremely fun and exciting.

Get this for young gamers or people who like playing platformer games.Whatever happened to the days when games were made to be fun?  Whatever happened to the days where replay value was through the roof and graphics were not as heavily emphasized? This game is well over 10 years old now and it is still fun to play.  Even in this day and age I see kids enjoying it.  This should be one of those games that developers look back upon and say what made that game so much fun?  What can we learn from this aside from improving upon the old school 3D graphics?  Spyro may not be the best game of all time but it certainly is a fun one for me that I have had a lot of fond memories playing.This game is a lot of fun! The environments are adorable and the gameplay is a lot of fun. There is quite a bit of stuff to do and the game is kind of challenging. My only problem is the movement is a little goofy feeling at first, but you will get used to it.I played Croc 2 more often, but I did play Croc: Legend of the Gobbos when I was young.  These games were so fun, as well as difficult (I never managed to get 100% completion on either of them).  The controls are a bit stiff, but this did release in 1997, so that should be expected.  The game is quite difficult and the story itself is quite simple, but the game is fun nonetheless, and for me it's a pretty timeless classic, that I am happy to add to my collection of childhood memories and video games.  Definitely worth the money.I'll recommend Spyro to anyone, fun enemies and worlds, and awesome concepts. Graphics aren't the best of course, but the gameplay is so addicting, collecting gems and freeing your fellow dragons. Must-have for a Playstation 1 collection.Never having played a spyro game before, I figured I'd start with the first one which I downloaded off the Playstation Network on PS3.  At first I was turned off by the camera control and graphics, but once I realized how fun the game was, it was no longer a problem.  I did everything in the game for 120% in a matter of days, as I found it to be very addicting.

The gameplay consists of exploring a few hub worlds which are connected to various levels where you must free dragons, collect diamonds and defeat the bad guys.  Some levels include full flight, which adds some much needed variety to the core gameplay.  The boss battles were the weakest part, as they didn't really stand out and were pretty tame.  Games nowadays are so complex that it was a pleasure to play something so simple.  Running around colorful worlds, collecting multi-colored diamonds and discovering secret areas are always a good time, and Spyro is the purest form of these ideas.

The simplicity of the gameplay combined with the variety in worlds/levels ensured it never got boring.  Just pure light hearted fun!This memory card works but i have to take it out and put it back in every time i turn the system off otherwise it won't read.I liked this game. In my mind this really isn't a Kids game though. to beat the game 100% actually requires alot of time and effort. Its more the type of game you can play and kids will watch. The controls are pretty easy. its basically MARIO but your a crocodile exploring diffrent levels, theres really nothing groundbreaking.

The game does keep your attention and you will have fun completing the levels. A good game if your a patient person, if not youll wonder why its taking you so long to beat this"kids" game and make you feel stupid.Spyro the Dragon: the game that SHOULD have been Sony's mascot instead of Crash Bandicoot.

The original Spyro the Dragon is probably the best platform/adventure game you can find for the Playstation.  I can't give Spyro's first adventure a 5-star rating, though.  Let's get the problems out of the way before moving on to the positive things about Spyro (and believe me, there's a LOT of good things about this game).

People have compared Spyro the Dragon to everything from Crash Bandicoot to Banjo-Kazooie to Nights, and... who knows what else.  Well, I think the first Spyro game is JUST as good as all those games.  In fact, Spyro the Dragon is better than the first Crash Bandicoot game.  Now THERE'S a game that disappointed me.  Spyro came out of nowhere and RULED right from the beginning.  I never would have guessed back in 1998 that Spyro would have went on to become a classic.

Spyro's debut does have a few problems, though.  Seeing as how this is Spyro's very first adventure I won't be TOO harsh.  Am I the only one who thinks the play control could have been better?  It's not that I have a tough time controlling Spyro.  Well, to be honest, I DID have trouble controlling him at first.  Spyro doesn't QUITE take off when you hit up, down, left or right on the directional pad.  There's a split second delay before moving forward.  Maybe the creators of the game thought this was part of the realism since, after all, you're moving a DRAGON.  A BIG creature like a dragon won't move forward right away.  Then again, Spyro is small compared to the dragons you have to rescue.

Controlling Spyro was definitely a problem for me at first.  For example, attempting to properly jump on top of the three round platforms you encounter at the very beginning of the first world was NOT an easy task.  I kept sliding off.  By the way, I recommend you take advantage of these round platforms to get to know the controller.  Master the controller before exploring the world.  This will cut down on any possible frustration you may encounter in the future.

I have to consider that my inability to control Spyro may have been due to the camera angles.  Even though the camera in this game is *drastically* better than many other games, you have to admit it isn't flawless either.  If you hit Pause and go to the options, you will see an option for a second camera view called "active".  This view is better because the camera immediately follows behind Spyro at ALL times.  The other (default) camera view is more of a hassle trying to figure out where you're moving, and you can't get a good view of what lies ahead.  You may want to change it to "active" if the other camera view is difficult for you.  Thank goodness for this option!

Some people have a problem with the lack of challenge.  While it's completely true you won't have much trouble making it to the end of any stage in the game, prepare to die 4 or 5 times in each stage before you understand exactly what you have to do, and where you have to jump.  I think the most challenging thing about Spyro the Dragon are the times you have to jump onto a far-away platform, and many times you just BARELY make it.  Many times you will fall to your death.  Be patient, though.  The game NEVER messes with you by throwing in any impossible jumps.  Sometimes it's about finding *just* the right spot to jump and glide, and if you're off just a *little bit* you won't make it.  The creators of Spyro are smart not to make the game frustrating, seeing as how it's supposed to be a game for the entire family.  Good work.

The biggest challenge comes at the very end of the game when you face the main boss.  He's really easy to beat, however, GETTING to him is a whole other story.  You see, right at the very end before you face him, you have to jump over a series of disappearing platforms and if you fall (and you WILL fall the first few times because it's hard) you will land in burning lava and have to do the whole stage over again.  Not that the stage is really that long anyway, but this is by FAR the hardest part of the game.  The other 99% of the game only offers a slight challenge here and there.

With that said, don't be fooled into thinking the game will be a cakewalk because of all the easy obstacles found throughout World One.  It DOES get harder.  You see, many of the enemies you face in the later levels can only be defeated by either smacking them with your head, or shooting fire at them.  You won't know which of these tricks will be most effective on them until you face the enemy and experiment.  You also have to dodge fireballs, sword-swipes, dogs jumping at you, and tons of other enemy attacks WHILE you try to find the best way to defeat them.  So it's not pathetically easy after all.

A minor complaint is that sometimes while you're walking or running, the path will suddenly end, and you'll fall to your death.  Doesn't happen often, but I thought it would be worth mentioning.

I hate the way Spyro talks.  He sounds like a bratty teenage rebel with a nasally voice.  Not exactly what a dragons voice should sound like.  Also, when you rescue the dragons, sometimes they say important things you might want to pay attention to.  The problem here is that many times the important tips they say aren't really helpful because they say them right AFTER you've already had to do them!  For instance, in one case after you glide to a far-away platform and rescue a dragon, the dragon will tell you how to glide.  Obviously, since I needed to glide in order to rescue him, I already KNOW how to glide!  So I didn't NEED his help!  This happens a few times during the game.  You just want to scream "Thanks for nothing, bonehead!"

The music was done by a member of the rock band the Police, Stewart Copeland.  People may not realize it, but certain themes in Spyro the Dragon are *very* close to some of the songs that made the Police such a legendary rock band.  Stewart Copeland may have intentionally created the music in this game to match that of the Police, specifically the songs "walking on the moon" and "message in a bottle".  You'll soon realize that the same guy who created the music in this game also played a big part in creating those Police songs.  The music in Spyro the Dragon is also very catchy and appropriate for the level you're in.  No complaints.  The music is fantastic.

I think the creators made a mistake.  When you hit L2 the camera rotates clockwise, and R2 makes the camera rotate counter-clockwise.  It should be the other way around.  Another thing that needs reversed: the way Spyro flies in the bonus stages.  When you press up, you fly down.  When you press down, you fly up!  Strange mistake.  This makes it harder to complete the flying stages, however, you don't have to finish them.

In fact, despite what people may tell you, you do *not* have to collect ALL the gems and ALL the dragons.  Finding and collecting all the gems and dragons will only give you a better percentage and open up a bonus stage at the end of the game.  The gameplay in Spyro the Dragon can actually be compared to Yoshi's Island- you don't have to find everything, but doing so will open up rewards and give you an overall better score.  The creators did a fantastic job hiding gems and dragons, increasing the challenge.  More often than not you will see a treasure chest or a dragon statue up high on a platform and not have a single clue how to reach it.  It's fun to run around and think about how to reach it.  Some of them are cleverly located.  One word to describe it- *awesome*

Anyway, Spyro the Dragon is tons of fun and may possibly remind you of a 3D Donkey Kong Country, what with TNT barrels and the jungle levels you encounter later on.  Spyro is much better than that overrated Crash Bandicoot game, and you should pick up Spyro the Dragon today.This game is a really good game. There is a good storyline to it and challenging. But isn't Spyro's best. It's a good game in the end.Not boring, not geat either. I like how they have designed it and how good the graphics are but this isn't the best out of the three. I prefered the 2 nd most but really enjoyed the 3 rd too. If you are looking for a lot of adventure, try out this. BRILL.The is the first Spyro game and it paved the road for all the other Spyro games. The story: When the evil Nasty Norc turns all of the dragons into statues, it's up to Spyro, a small purple dragon, to set them free and defeat Nasty Norc. You travel with Sparx, your dragonfly companion and also your health gage, as you collect gems and go through six gigantic worlds with over 25 levels in all. This game is great, although it's not very challenging, it offers hour of entertainment. My favorite world is the Beast Makers world. It's a creepy place and almost all the levels in it take place at nighttime, which to me is the best type of level in Spyro. My favorite is Tree Tops because it is a gigantic level that gives you that creepy feeling, even the music is creepy in it's own way. Another minor flaw in this game is that it has no mini-games in it. Those always provide extracurricular fun, but I'm happy to say that they are introduced in a later Spyro release. I'd recommend this game today if you don't already have it. If you not into Spyro, this is the place to start at.That said, the game is really fun. Not too hard that you rent it and after a while throw the controller down in frusteration-not too easy that you breeze through it. No, there are gems to collect and characters to meet. This was the beginning of Spyro. He only got better and better in future games. Check this one out first though or it'll drive you crazy(everything improves SO much in the next game)Did I mention how CUTE Spyro is??I love this game.  The characters are cute, they make great noises, and there are lots of worlds to explore.  It's really hard to die too, so you could concievably play without a memory card.  What I don't like about it is that Spyro is a little hard to control compared to today's games, and a lot of parts are highly frustrating.  Thieves have stolen a bunch of dragon eggs and you have to chase them down and get the eggs back, but this is MUCH easier said than done.  I have spent hours chasing these guys on some levels.  I mean, I wouldn't want the game to be too easy, but this is borderline ridiculous.  But it's still a really great game and I absolutely fell in love with it.  I'd recomend it to people who love cute things and have infinite patience.Spyro the Dragon was the game I got right after it's sequel: Spyro 2 Ripto's Rage. I know it's a bit too late, but I just think that the Spyro series are too fun. Spyro 2 is better than the first, but this game is still great. The graphics and sound is nice, the gameplay will leave you hours into this game, and the story is original. Spyro is one of my favorite series, and this game is great and fun for everyone.I own all the Spyro games that Play Station has ever made. I would have to say that this game has advanges and disadvanges. Some good things about it is that this is the only Spyro game where you free the dragons. In the rest of the games, you help other people... It is funny and very interesting. ( Sorry, but I won't give the funny parts away. )
The disadvanges is that you can't swim. In the other to games you can but in this game, if you touch the water you will die!!
Another bad thing is that they don't have the cute characters like the other two games. I would buy Spyro 3 first and then buy Spyro 1. I think Spyro 3 has more stuff to do and has a better story line. I even think Spyro has a better voice. If you like all three Spyro's, try buying the Spyro pack. It is much cheaper than buying all of the games seperatly. Then you can decide which one is better!!I had to return it because the green label lets you use the unlimited ammo cheat.Honestly, let's face it.  RE2 was one of the best in the series and is always a serious must have.  We're in the age of PS3's now and I understand that since it is 2012 that the graphics may not seem as good as they were when RE2 1st came out, but the gameplay is still awesome!  Also, the voiceacting is at least a step up from RE1!This game kept me dreaming as a child back in the late 90's. I used to crave Resident evil 2 and its "So realistic graphics" (Hey, Back then, Ps 1 Was Awesome Graphics.) Its Scary, Its Frightening, And its Impossible to beat with just a knife. Give it a shot, Only downside is poor Voice acting, Like their captain obvious or something. But if you Played RE 3 this will seem like a Downer game. RE directors cut is where its at!The game is now available for download via PSN for only $5.99!

I spent 4 hours playing the game; meaning I got my monies worth!I see myself as a guru of Survival Horror games, I like'em and I like what they make me feel. Now let's get on with my review for Resident Evil 2.

I have to first mention that I did not and will not buy Resident Evil 2 or Resident Evil 3 for Gamecube... unlike Resident Evil Remake they have nothing new to offer me or you... which is sad after seeing what they did and what improvement remake was to the original Resident Evil. So let's just keep this review centered around the Original Resident Evil 2 game for PSX 1.

Comparing RE 2 to RE or RE Director's Cut is like comparing Raw Horsemeat to a young Stallion. Resident Evil 2 had better graphics and sound by far, not to mention the fact that it was on a bigger bolder scale than Resident Evil. Simple bottom line folks is that if your looking for a GOOD Survival Horror game... pick this one up.

I had no real gripes towards the game and I felt that the DEVs of the game did everything in the better interest for the Resident Evil genre. As you can see by the score that I gave this game, I liked it and I truly think you'd like it aswell.My first experience with the Resident Evil series was with Code: Veronica X.  I was severely disappointed overall with it, and from what I've read, the whole series is the same, so I had little to no faith in it.  I didn't feel the need whatsoever to play the other games, and openly spoke out against the series, even though I only played one game.  But, after playing Resident Evil 4, I got intrigued by the story, so I decided to try out Resident Evil 1-3.  I thought, "There's no way they can be worse than Code: Veronica, so why not?"  And good god... was I right.

Although the first RE was little more than a big laughable joke (thanks to the ridiculously horrible voice acting that makes what you find in Code: Veronica X look like an Oscar-winning performance), that wasn't really scary at all until the hunters came into the picture, the second iteration really blew me away.  Anybody who has known me for more than two seconds knows I don't care at all about graphics in a videogame, so I'm not going to say anything about them because it is irrelevant (which is why I'm not a GameCube or Xbox fan).  The gameplay is very good for a survival horror - there is plenty of puzzle solving, adventure, exploration, and combat to keep the interest level up.  That's what I like about survival horror: it's not just about fighting to stay alive, but it is also about exploring and solving puzzles to unravel the plot and make sense out of mysterious circumstances.  And, while Resident Evil 2 isn't anywhere near as scary or intricate in story as the Silent Hill series, it is still a top-notch game to play for any fan of the genre, and I highly recommend it.  The first one you can play on your own; I just played it because I wanted to know what Wesker did to get Chris so ticked off with him, and vice versa.  The reason the title of my review is "I was wrong..." is because I really was wrong in assuming that the Resident Evil series was a bunch of bunk and no worth anyone's time.  So, I apologize for being a presumptuous jerk.

But, there is one issue I just can't stop from addressing: the controversy over the control scheme.  Now, I won't go into one of my trademark rants insulting everybody, but I will state my thoughts from an objective point of view.  The reason survival horror games have such awkward controls is because the game developers wanted it that way.  This is a genre for puzzle solving, plotlines, exploration, and thought, not just about shooting things.  They made the controls this way to render it, in a way, a sort of "anti-action" type of game genre.  Still, though, once you get used to the controls, like me, you will have no trouble blasting zombies torsos in two soon enough.

Another thing that is cool about this game is the zombies and their... "creative" death sequences (okay, so maybe they die a second time, but this time for good).  Naturally, you can blow their heads off, but even more possibilities await your execution.  Sometimes, you can fire at them and their arm will be severed by your bullets, or with a shotgun you can shoot them at the base of their spine and they will be blasted in half, the upper section of their body crawling on the ground with its arms alone to try and bite you.  When you upgrade your shotgun later on, you can actually blow their chest in half!  And, with a rocket launcher, if you fire at them square in their torso, their arms, head, and a good portion of their upper body will be gone.  If you hit them to the right side, most of said side will be gone, as will their head and respective arm, yet their left arm will still be attached.  Pretty cool, huh?  Code: Veronica X didn't have anything like that, which is rather too bad.

The only problem I had with this game, and it really isn't a problem with the game itself, is that it really made me shake my head at Code: Veronica X.  It almost seems as if Capcom had taken a huge step backward in their videogame-making abilities.  Heck, even the first Resident Evil is better than REC:VX.  For example, in the first one, the hunters had narrow, sharp, reptilian eyes, rows of razor-sharp teeth that protruded from their mouths, and they looked pretty scary, but in Code: Veronica, they didn't have such teeth (it almost looked like they didn't have any at all), and they also had small, beady eyes, making them more of a joke than an intimidating enemy.

Yet another good part about this game is the Titan.  I must say, he is really one heck of a bad guy.  But, of course, he's nowhere near as bad*ss as the Nemesis or as terrifying as Pyramid Head.  But he's cool nonetheless.

So, in conclusion, if you like survival horror games, then I suggest you try this one out.  But don't expect it to be better than Silent Hill, if you're a fan of that series (just as a side note).Resident Evil 2 - Circa 1998

GOOD:

- An upgrade over the original, which was considered a great game

- Considered classic to many gamers

- Good story, with twists and turns

BAD:

- Graphics look very dated

- Voice acting is not that great

- Controls feel dated

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:

- Slow moving "survival horror" game, which is more about moving boxes, managing items, and unlocking doors then actually fighting for your life

- A Sc-Fi horror game set in a city over run with zombies, huge snakes, and all types of creatures

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Dino Crisis

- Silent Hill

- Alone in the dark

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- There is a remake of this game for the Nintendo 64 and Nintendo Game Cube both of which don't really upgrade anything

- The male playable character (Leon) is also the star of Resident Evil 4

- Beating the game in a certain way can unlock two new characters "Hunk" and "Tofu"

- There was a rumor that you could unlock Akuma from Street Fighter Alpha as a playable character, but that is not true

- In Japan Resident Evil 2 is called Biohazard 2Resident Evil 2 was one of the best Psx games back in the mid 90's as it had exclusive rights to Sony.  The game was the sequal to one of the best Survival Horror game ever.  Does this do better then its prediseccor?...YES.  OH HELL YES.  The game is a solid good game.  The story line is really entertaining but it was more of a sci fi then a horror story.  I won't spoil the story for you but the game is 2 discs and you control 2 characters(serpartly) in the game.  One is a cop named Leon Kennedy and the other is female after her missing brother Chris(who was in RE1)and the two end up meeting eachother and the rest you can figure out..

I really enjoyed this game, it was fantastic.  I loved the graphics for this game it was just "wow".  The game is pretty short if you play only one half of the character you play as.  They both have 2 parts(kina).  Once you complete that characters game it opens up the second of half of the other character.  The game is fairly lenghy if you play the WHOLE game.  The game has some great twists that'll keep you up all night.  Lemmi make it easier for you...Resident Evil 2 was one of the coolest Playstation games ever.  It had an awesome story line, sweet graphics and decent dialoug.  It is also spooky in the scare factor especially when you see something crawl around a window in the beggining of the game.  In other words the game is awesome and scary.

The graphics for that time were just great and comparable to Metal Gear Solid.  The character model for Leon and Clair was amazing and the zombies looked even more creepy then before, not to mention the bloody gore in this game....jeez.  Capcom did a great job making the graphics.  kudose..

The gameplay is what really made me love this game.  Gun n' down zombies and solving puzzle...my type of game baby.  The Puzzle are not that hard but they are pretty cool.  The gameplay never gets boring and the boss fights are really cool.  The gameplay may turn some off in the beggining.  Mainly cause it's just runing away from zombies but later on that will change...trust me..

The sound is incredible!  The zombies sound so realistic and the music for the boss fights are magnifecent(my spelling sucks I know).  The sound it self deserves a one star...

What turned me off was the "kina cheezy sci fi" story.  It didn't have the same spooky feeling Resident Evil 1 had in story...which causes me to take off one star...Well yeah it was a stupid move just for that but hey that's my opinion...

The games has amazing graphics, great sound, lots of awesome gameplay and is one of my favorite video game series.  Not only that it may possibly be the best in the series if not then It's 3.

This game deserves a

4.8 out 5....

Resident Evil series is a superb series and anyone who loves survival horror will love it.  I personaly think it's one of the best gaming series out but I don't have ALL the resident Evil games.. The only ones I have are the one that go with the story like the ones I have are

And for any newbie out there who is trying to get into the series, if you have a gamecube and get the remake of the original and start with that...then 2, 3 then Resident Evil zero which is a really enjoyable Resident Evil game...Well

Lates..I rented this game when it first game out, I was scared out of my mind. Everything made me jump, now I have sort of gotten over that, I am 15 and although the music and sound(zombie moaning and feet stepping) creates this scary atmosphere, it is not THAT scary. Most of you can handle it.
Anyways, I needed a strategy guide for some of it. It just, it just is unrealistic. Yea to put out a fire you need a crank in a cabin? Why was the crank removed in the first place. "We need to make it so if there is a fire of some sort, this hose we have hooked up, will release some water." Yea they happened to put a handy dandy hose thingy in the ceiling, so just incase a helicopter crashed under it, or there was a mass fire under it, the hose would put it out. Yea right. Ok you need a cord just to close some shutters so zombies won't attack you? If the police were fighting, they should of closed these shutters beforehand, so less zombies came in. Instead, they decided to put the cord in an office about a mile away. Wanna get into that room? You need the crest and key and plugs buddy! How did the police actually get around this police station.
Moving off of that, the game is alright. You have alot of ammo on easy, although I fear I will run out alot of the time, I usually find a pack or 2 to keep me going. The zombies themselves can take quite alot, like 5 hits to kill them. However once you get the pistol modification for Leon, they become a whole lot easier. The story is nice. 2 people trying to escape a city full of undead living thingy creatures and such. Theres alot of other characters though, you aren't the last 2 humans alive in the city. The game even though was known to have a sequel considering tremendous profits, finishes great. It starts randomly, but then ends where it should. It succeeds in making a good game. Good story, some action, you get to kill some of those evil zombies, and good package.I will open with the Pros:
Replayability - It's Hitman. What did you expect? You can go back and replay missions over and over to try for a cleaner, quicker kill or just fly right through it in a weekend like I did.
Length of game - Do not listen to reviews such as Xbox Official Magazine saying it is a lengthy game. I finished it in one weekend. Friday night, Sat and Sunday. I would estimate around 10-12 hours solid play. BUT..If you go back and replay the missions for a better score, then it can drag out much further. But like I said, to play through and complete the tasks, it is not a long game.
Story - Not bad at all. A few plot holes made me scratch my head but not bad.
Overall Graphics - Better than the old Hitman games but nothing at all like cut scenes. Don't confuse cut scenes in the trailers as gameplay.
Character dev - Although they give you a little info on specific targets, it didn't seem worth the effort to look any deeper into their back story. I just went forth on a killing spree. You point me in that direction? Here I go. There's no option to ever take a person into custody and question them. You kill anyone who you are pointed at.
Hand to hand - They kept it simple. between space bar, "Q, W or E" were your controls to hit when it told you to hit that key. It wasn't hard to do hand to hand. It wasn't 100% awesome like Batman but it was pretty good.
Cons:
OMG why did all the people in close-up cut scenes talk with all their teeth showing? It really got annoying. I have never in my life met a person who talks like that. Also, the timing of the voice acting was bad. Serious delays in dialogue had me thinking the conversation was over then it started up again. So, voice acting wasn't bad, but developers did a poor job clipping it.
Graphics - In regards to clipping, I would sometimes get blocked by phantom walls while sneaking up steps. I had to walk back and forth until it let me pass. Also, it would say there was a key point right in front of me (blinking sonar circles) and there was nothing there. No desk, nothing to pick up and it was floating in the air. More developer issues.
(Minor Spoiler) Don't read if you can't take hints.
Sheer ease of killing other professional hitmen was a let down. I couldn't believe how easy it was to kill hired professionals.

Professional Edition: Do not waste your money. I got some weapons you can't even use in the game. It gives you the loadout at the begining and the weapons around the map are all based off that part of the game. No point in having access to the additional weapons.
Sniper challenge is ONE challenge. I beat it hands down and it never took me to a new challenge. It just lets you do the same challenge over and over.
All in all, it's a good game discounted at 1/2 price or lower. Don't waste your $ on the Pro Edition.Beat the first yet? If you have, then jump right ahead to the second masterpiece in the series.
It's fun, it's scary, and it is one hell of a ride. Ultimatley, Resident Evil 2 will give some nightmares. If the first one scared you, get ready to be terrified again!I played this before I played the original Resident Evil. I had just barely gotten the Playstation and was renting a bunch of stuff. Originally I hated this game because I couldn't figure out how to play it. I had been a Nintendan with occasional defects to Sega (I own a Genisis) so I was unfamiliar with what has become a nearly standard control style for Playstation games. I didn't understand the pivoting, nor did I grasp the concept of holding R-1 to aim and X to shoot. I got frusterated and set it aside. However, my brother picked it up immediately after and managed to get me past the first screen. (Yes I got killed right away.) I watched my brother navigate his way through the game until he finally got killed by the first Licker. He begged me to buy it. So I did. After a while I decided to give it another try, and once I got used to the control style I beat it. I have played this this Resident Evil, and it many different incarnations across differnt platforms more than any other version. I have also bought this one the most times trying to get the "ultimate edition" and eventually got tired of it and bought the Dual Shock Greatest Hits version after the N64 version's FMV sequences were so terrible. Although I will not buy the forthcomming GameCube port unless they imporove it as drastically as they did the original, I still recomend RE 2 as the most fun of the series. If for some reason there is someone out there who does not already have some version of this game do yourself a favor and pick one up. GameCube owners, I recomend waiting for the GCN version as it is supposed to have all of the various enhancements that all of the various versions of this game had, including the much desired analog control the N64 version featured.Shipped quickly. Had some issues with it reading at first, but after a little cleaning it works great!I respect this game it is very good and takes me back to my childhood I just don't care for this type of game flying around shooting but for that type it is goodGreat n64 game played it when I was little kid one of the best n64 games ever made next to Mario 64 and 007 golden eyestarfox for n64 will always be a classic, has fun game play only problem is that the game isn't overly challenging (made to be win-able by kids) and isn't a very long game i remember winning it on several occasions in one sitting (but still taking several hours)very fun game thoughi just got this game today and it is fun and very intense.also this game is from 1997 and its still really fun*The title is a quote from the final boss, Andross*

A more accurate rating for this game, overall, is really 4.5 stars; but, of course, Amazon won't let you grade in "half stars."  A true masterpiece, Starfox 64 stands as one of the greatest games ever created for the Nintendo 64, and perhaps even all time.  I recently got it as my first and only Star Fox title; and, though I'm normally not a fan of games with shooting and space ships like this, this game succeeded in impressing!  Analyzing its features step by step, it's pretty hard to find reasons why this game shouldn't be loved:

Storyline 10/10: The story is absolutely captivating!  Though it starts out pretty simple and generic (the galaxy and Corneria are being threatened by Venom, someone save us, etc.) the backstory behind it is pretty detailed, the intro is epic, and the story itself takes on a whole new life when you start playing!  Actually, YOU are the one who controls the story to a degree: you can pretty much decide, through skill and/or choice, whether things go great or awful for the Star Fox team, a heroic pilot crew you can manipulate.  You control Fox McCloud, and only Fox McCloud, but you also associate with the three pilots of Peppy, Slippy, and Falco; why, just protecting Falco and doing certain actions on the first level can decide which way the story goes!  This game does a great job of drawing you into its world and making you want to figure out what's happening.

Characters 9/10: I have to commend whoever came up with these interesting characters: they make the game!  Even on your own crew, each one is distinctive: Falco, for example, plays along the lines of "the tough guy with a secretly caring heart."  Peppy is like the fatherly instructive type, and Slippy plays along the lines of a new school boy.  Finally, Fox, the same character you control, often takes on a reserved leadership role (which makes sense).  Each one has his own quirks; and, though any of them can be annoying on a certain level, you can't help but feel a degree of liking for each of them.  Their lines, though perhaps epic for the time, can be somewhat cheesy and/or cliche (Peppy's, "It's Quiet . . . too quiet." is a good example); but the cheesiness adds to what is oddly a funny and light-hearted game.  You often can't help but think, "I shouldn't be laughing at this," but you'll laugh anyway.  It's just that kind of game.  The A.I. of each character on maneuvering is decent; but, until you get skilled enough, it can be hard not to shoot at them or let enemies get them, as they get in your way at the oddest times (then fuss at you when you do hit them).  Peppy occasionally gives advice that doesn't particularly help either, though it hardly ever hurts if you follow it.  Speaking of advice, though, the game can make you depend on your characters if you're newer at it, as they can each do something useful: Peppy gives advice and often tells you where to shoot, Slippy analyzes boss health meters, and Falco often covers you.  If someone gets shot down, you'll miss him.  Finally, the characters are also pretty life-like in behavior: try shooting down enemies that Falco is chasing on some levels, and listen to his reaction to it.

Graphics 9/10: Some issues with fog (common for Nintendo 64 games), but otherwise absolutely beautiful.  The fog itself, even, can be justified, as you spend most of your time in the air.  Though many stages take either a purely generic "spacial" theme, such as the asteroid field, the planets are really intuitive.  In this game you can find a volcanic environment, which even mimics the "wavy" effects of heat, an ocean environment (full of fish and plant life), a couple of cities, a train depot . . . the works!  The most interesting graphics you could see, however, has to be the part of the asteroid field you can "warp" to.  Though it probably looks like you've taken a medication or something else you shouldn't have, you can't deny the mysterious beauty of that point in the level. . . . Please note, however, that what levels you see depends on what paths through the game you take; like the story, it's dependent upon your actions in the levels.

Mechanics 9/10: This covers things like controls, ability to save, and learning curve (whether it's easy or hard to master).  The controls, though they work well, are pretty complicated to learn.  This complication, however, is eased by the nice training mode they threw in; a few rounds in training mode, and you'll pretty much have them down!  The game can still be pretty tough to a degree, though; however, I was able to nearly make it through the entire game on one of my first three rounds (and I'm usually not too hot at games like this), before the Star Wolf team finished me off (they're pretty tough if you don't know how to handle them right).  Make sure to master the somersault maneuver; I've never seen a game force you to rely on it as heavily as this one!  In terms of saving, I was disappointed: there's no way to save; and, unlike what some people say, there's no password feature either.  You'll probably get sick of the first level for that reason.  While it's not a deal breaker, this game isn't for the busy person who's looking to play for only an hour or less and quit.  If you want to experience the true value of this game, you'd better set aside at least a couple of hours for it.  The lack of a save feature is the biggest thing that kept me from giving this game a perfect score, as I kept catching myself thinking, "This game would be perfect if only it had a save feature!"

Music and Sound 10/10: No complaints in the music and sound department!  It pretty much captures the mood, be it suspenseful, hopeful, dramatic, or even rewarding.  The character voices are also well done, awesomely portraying the character personalities as well.  I can't describe any of this justly, though; you'll have to listen for yourself!

Conclusion: Star Fox 64 is a face of near perfection, if only a few small blemishes hadn't reared their ugly heads.  Multiplayer, I hear, is lacking; but, overall, none of the minor flaws in this game are major dealbreakers.  Personally, I recommend this game to people who are bored and have a lot of time on their hands; the replay value is great with its various paths!  The final boss can be downright creepy, and . . . well, I think any critique could easily go on forever!  Long story short, this game is an absolute steal at the cheap price it's at now.  A fond memory in many gamers hearts, this Star Fox 64 still remains as a highly recommended game to play!It can be said that this game is easy, maybe the graphics is terrible but at the time i loved this game i've not touch this game in years however i can say i really enjoyed this all time classic.
For the people who are true nitendo fans this is a classic that you can add to your 64 libary. I still have my 64 and it works great so does the games, Starfox is worth a try laterz folks.As with the first there is no save option but it is still fun to see how far you get in this game. Its nice and challenging its just a drag there is no continue or save option here. You can get extra lives though. Like most games it gets easier the more you play it. The graphics are superb and the music is very good too. I just recommend you get the first Star Fox cause that game is longer. You should still get this though.At first I thought this game [stunk] cause there was no save feature but there is a password feature and you can use other people's passwords to start out on whatever level you feel. Cheating has never looked so good! There are great graphics and action and the gameplay is very straightforward. All in all it deserves an A -. A great gift to receive in September.In 1997, Nintendo was on the cutting edge in the video gaming industry. The Nintendo 64 proved that no mateer what a CD-ROM gaming system was able to do, a cartridged based gaming system could do better. That June, the case really proved the theory with the release of Starfox 64. The game was the very first to incorporate Nintendo's Rumple Pak, a force-feedback device that let's players feel each and every vibration at hand.
In the game, you play Fox McCloud, a young determined fighter pilot who is sent on several missions to destroy Andross, a inane, mad genius that demands full control of the Lylat system. There are 15 remarkable stages that let you encounter in the entire game, alone over twenty-five different paths you decide on your way to Andross. The graphics are so realistic and full of promise, that you see the game so vividly, you feel like you're a part of it. In Starfox 64, you also have the use of 3 different vehicles, depending on your course, Arwing, Landmaster Tank, or the Blue Marine sub, only used in the Aquas sea level. The game also has a fierce battle level, for up to 4 players, where you shoot down your fellow squadron leaders, Peppy, Falco, and Slippy.
It took nearly two years for other companies to develop the feel of the game, the exact same way Nintendo did with Starfox 64. The game is exactly one of a kind in the pilot seat. While Nintendo stopped releasing the Rumble Pak with the game nearly six months later, Starfox 64 is still truly a Nintendo gamer's paradise.When i first played this game last Christmas, for the first time, i thought "oh my goodness, how do you play this! "...this is a  mario game but at that time i wasn't feeling too well and the strange  appearance of the game made my head spin.
As a result, i played tomb  Raider:TLR insetad. Happy to tell you that today, i'd rather play this game  than Tomb Raider.
Well, it's like a board game but much more fun. Lot's  of minigames, lots of chances to shout and swear (not that i'm telling you  to) but it's all good-natured fun.
The characters look kind of silly (esp  Yoshi and Peach who look like circus rejects)but i don't think the purpose  of playing a mario game (or any decent video game) is to see hunks and  babes.
However, this game falls short of Mario Kart replay glory 'cause  the formula can get tired at times.
But if you want a solid first-party  party game, then this is it. I haven't played GoldenEye 007 or Perfect  Dark yet- so as far as pure multiplayer mania is concerned, this is number  2 next to Mario kart 64.
Yes, it's that good.Unlike some other reviewers I actually found that this game was enjoyable. The only complaint I have is that the graphics looked like they belonged to a Super Nintendo. Besides that the game is awesome.
 The basic outline of the game is that you race the USA from California to Washington DC. Each level gets harder as you pass along but not to worry. Once you get the hang of the game you will beat the level after a few tries. Each time you complete the whole entire racee (California to D.C.) you will earn a faster car.
 So, all in all Crus n' USA is a pretty enjoyable game. Buy and enjoy.
HAPPY GAMING!Game came in horrible shape, and did not work out the box. I had to use alcohol to clean off the connectors to make it work. Other than that it worked well. But for the price, I cant complain too much.Originally bought this for myself to take a trip down memory lane, but my 7 year old brother has been playing it nonstop for the past month lol It wasn't as great as I remember but at least someone is really enjoying it!
The case itself was clean and works fine. No problems at all :)The first of the Mario Party games!

It really is an awesome game. I only played it at a friend's house as a child really, so now, many years later, I finally decided to get it for myself, along with 2 and 3. The n64 games are classic.
I really only play it by myself, but it is so much funner to play with friends. You can get so angry when someone steals your star. This is how you get in fights with your friends.
The mini games are fun, not as fun as 2 and 3 though.
Never going to regret buying this game :)The first mario party while not the best mario party,holds a lot of nostalgia for me.
if it weren't for the stick spinning minigames i'd rank this in the top 3.My son and I play this one together a lot. I have yet to best him playing this game, It was funI'll be doing the Mario Party games next and besides this one and 9, I have the entire series. 1 is the first one I played and still the one I hold very highly as one of the best ones in the series.

The plot is very generic. Toad wants to test everyone and see who can be the super star and thus the game that destroys friendships begin. The original Mario Party is known for its difficulty in terms of mini games as the controllers back in the day were either unresponsive or some were just way too hard and required luck. I might even add that some mini games like the tug-o-war required you to twirl your controller to the point that it might even break or hurt your hand. Yeah some of the mini-games are brutal. On the plus side, there are some memorable mini games where you had to work together to win the game and personally we didn't see that until Mario Party 9 with the boss battle.

The game overall had the most nostalgic feel and introducing the character's personalities through the stages. This game kind of set up Peach's obsession with cake and Luigi being the gadgeteer of the two brothers. The music for the stage is very cute especially in Rainbow Castle. I love how whoever gets 4th place gets the butt monkey treatment and attacked by the stage while 1st player achieves the mission needed.

Overall, a good start for the series, but good luck finding this game. This game never reached the virtual console because of the controls so its a rare find in any trade in store without it being at extremely high prices.well i received cruis'n WORLD in the mail, not cruis'n USA. but i prefer it, so that's ok. that's the only reason i gave 4 stars. both are greatI've had this game basically since it launched in 2000. I must say, the graphics are rather impressive for an N64 game, and the gameplay is great. The minigames are fun, especially when playing with other people. The only real problem I had with this game is how it didn't last long at all. It has about 100-150 mini games, but you can easily beat the game and unlock them all within about a week of good playing time.The days when people said, "We're having a Party, A Mario Party..."  Seems to be long past.  When this game first came out, it seemed to be the only thing people talked about.  Yet today, with 5 Mario Parties in the collection, this one still is wonderful for being the base roots.
Just like any of the other Mario Parties, you choose which character you'd like to be, Mario, Luigi, ect.  The object of the game is to go around the board and collect Stars.  Stars come at a price, 20 coins.  To get 20 coins, you must win mini games or land on blue spots.  This is like an advanced board game for the N64, but with a twist.  In addition to the board game aspect of this game, after everyone takes 1 turn a mini game takes place.
Competitions in this mini game include:
Everyone against eachother
1 Vs 3
2 Vs 2
This is where the intense fun comes on.  You and your friends button smash, spin the analog stick to your hearts content.  As a matter of fact, so much button smashing (fast taps on the buttons)takes place that gloves came out for this game to protect your hand.  Be warned, if you're too competitive with this particular Mario Party, you may wind up with a blistered palm or sore fingers.
It's overall pure fun.  Games can last for hours and hours if you really want.  Though playing a board game on a console sounds dull, this game completely opposite of that!
If you want a great N64 game...this is a must buy.
If you are interested in this game, but don't want to play an older console anymore or don't have a N64, I recommend Mario Party 4 and 5 for the Nintendo Gamecube.  Exceptionally fun, with  quite a bit less dangerous button smashing.When Nintendo first made it onto the scene with Mario 64, they had no idea of how interesting it is to mold and shape the format of the Mario Brothers industry for the Nintendo 64. It became so big, that every single thing had to be topped off to the next level of excitement, and so on down the line.
With Mario Party for Nintendo 64, they had absolutely no idea of how successful it has become. The game features your choice of six characters to choose from, Wario, Mario, Peach a.k.a. Princess Toadstool, Yoshi, Luigi, and Donkey Kong. The object of the game is to collect as many stars as possible by winning several different types of games including Tug O' War, where it is 1 player vs. 3 players, Bombs Away, where you have to try stay on a floating island for 30 seconds, without getting the shock from cannon shots coming, and there is Deep Sea Divers, where you have to collect as many treasure chests as possible, without losing your breath. There are also six different kinds of boards to play the game on, as well as two very special hidden boards, so look out.
It is a shame that most games didn't seem to be like Mario Party. Although many people are interested in the newer ones and the Gamecube version, the original is always the best one to try for starters. If you really want it, then roll the dice and take that very first chance.In Mario Party, you take control of one of six Nintendo characters (Mario, Luigi, Peach, Yoshi, Wario, or Donkey Kong) and move around a board as if you were playing a board game. After each turn, you play a minigame. At the end of the minigame, the winner(s) get coins. The coins can then be used to buy stars from Toad. Sometimes you run into Bowser, who does something random, but never helps anyone. The winner is the character with the most stars at the end of a set amount of turns. A true original by Nintendo. However, there is a major problem with the controls...
As you may have heard, there are minigames in Mario Party that require rotating the control stick. Doing this can lead to blisters on the palm of your hand. In fact, Nintendo realized this and was almost about to recall every copy of Mario Party. But instead, Nintendo released a statement to the public that they would send a glove to prevent blisters if you send them the cover of Mario Party's instruction manual.
I realize that there are many people out there that do not want to go through the hassle of having to do more than buying the game in order to play the game. Specifically, the people who usually lose the instruction manual to their games the second after they open the box. In this case, how is the person going to be able to get the glove if they could not provide the object that Nintendo was looking for? Nintendo should have found some other way to distribute the gloves. A way that would allow anyone who has the game, and cannot keep track of everything, get there hands on, or in, a glove.
Nintendo should have noticed this defect and corrected it before releasing Mario Party. But don't let that stop you from buying it. It's still a great game; just don't forget to buy a glove!This game is basically just you controlling Flik and steering away from "bad" bugs and collecting points and power ups to win. I bought the game because I enjoy Toy Story on the Game Boy and figured PS1 action is just as fun. Well, I was mostly right. Here's the pros and cons:
Pros:
* Good graphics
*Good Character Model Animation
*Lots of Power Ups
* Training Level
Cons:
* Too many difficult enemies
* Levels don't get harder quickly
Anyway, good game!The graphics and audio in this game really leave more to be desired, but the overall gameplay is loads of fun.  Mission objectives and dificuly are good although you won't find yourself in a lot of full-blown shoot outs.  Nevertheless, it is a good game and I definitely would reccomend it.Rockstar games later went on to use the game engine and flight mechanics as well as the swimming and other parts of his game to improve what most of you would refer to as GTA:SA and GTA:4, one could be labored to suggest that this game allowed and was the father of said games. In the gaming industry it happens often that one game either spawns or helps improve the industry standards and this game thou over looked did more for the gaming world then most figure or see.

This game is to GTA, as Ultima Underworld is to Fallout 3, and that is to say they are the for runners that improved future games. I suggest if your looking for good harmless violence without human on human violence I recommend this one if you still use your N64. I would point out, that Human deaths that you allow or preform increase a ticking total and once you get to many you fail the level. So the game even goes so far as to not allow it, I will also add this game has one of the largest number of flying vehicles and ground vehicles and even boats and the likes of almost any game I have ever played in my entire life.This is my first review I've done of a video game. Body Harvest is a game that's very much fun to play. Although I read through the instruction booklet, this game SEEMS tough to figure out as to what to do next. It's almost like having your -own- Johnny Quest cartoon to play. Although you get just one life in your player (sort of a futuristic-like space warrior), you get plenty of chances to re-juice his power. The graphics, in MY opinion are good even though I've heard others quoting that they didn't care for them. Also enjoy the music that starts up whenever the aliens start coming in for the kill. An hour can easily pass by when you play Body Harvest. A good game to own.I have to admit, as much as I want to praise this game, it is mostly wasted potential.  Even though this game came out in the later stage of the N64's run, it has the graphics of a third party release title. (Read: They're not all that great.)  Everything about the game reaches towards high concepts, but almost nothing reaches its goal.  The idea is that you are a timetraveling hero who has to save the world from various attacks from interstellar insects throughout history.  While the story is pure fluff, the gameplay (at least in theory) is not.  DMA is well known for the Grand Theft Auto series of games, and Body Harvest follows a similar formula.  You shoot things, then you get into various vehicles and shoot more things.  The main difference is that in Body Harvest you don't want to run innocent people over.
The controls are innovative and simple, but not very well implimented.  Its easy to get the hang of walking and driving the multitudes of cars/boats/planes/tanks, but the controls are too lose for your character to move around with much precision.  In addition, the aiming system also fails to live up to its high concept.  Basically you press the aim button, which brings up a cool looking recticule, but limits your movements.  However, since the enemies are so slow and predictable, and the areas are so spacious, battles boil down to mere shooting galleries.  When the enemies get tougher, faster, and more numerous in the later levels, it remains a shooting gallery, just with the bugs doing the shooting.  At this point in the game, vehicles become not just the coolest part of the game (and they are cool) but totally necissary, since you are toast without them even on the easy difficulty.  Combat in vehicles, even with aiming cababilities, usually devolve into shooting whatever is right in front of you.
Basically, this is a high concept game that didn't quite make the grade and feels very rushed (despite the fact that I waited a long time during its extended development.)  Furthermore, with the next generation systems now on the market, the graphics and framerate become simply unacceptable and this game might be better off when viewed as a curiousity piece or a very early beta of Grand Theft Auto 3,If you want a [well priced], yet fulfilling few hours of destructive fun, this is your game. I found the ambience slightly disturbing, that's good. Fans of the films will appreciate all the locales being included. The graphics are extremely dated, but for fans of old school games who don't need extreme eye candy, this is a solid buy.For those of us who got a PSX at rollout, Alien Trilogy deffinately belongs in the list of all time PSX classic games.  Sure, by today's graphics standards it's not so great but it has great game play.  The best thing about this game is the ambiance - dark, great music, it is a little scarry.  The game is simple to play and control.  Yes, the Doom/Unreal crowd won't like it - not enough buttons and weapons of mass destruction.  No, this is the first person shooter your girlfriend will want to play too.  Acclaim should remake this title for PS2 with more CG story cuts and cohesive plot.Originally released way, way back a little after the release of the original Playstation; Acclaim's Alien Trilogy (you can tell this game is old considering the film series stopped being a trilogy when the fourth film Alien Resurrection was released a year later on) is a straight forward first person shooter in which you play as Ripley going through all the Xenomorph infested areas from the first three films.  By today's standard's the graphics, gameplay, and weapon options are all pretty dated, but in it's day Alien Trilogy was one of the better FPS games to hit the PS1.  All in all, if you still have your PS1 and dig older FPS games, you should give this one time gem a look.Decided to start collecting old-time PS1 games and this one is a must have. I remember playing this constantly throughout my childhood.Myst is a game of strategy. You must use your mind to figure out the puzzles. Sometimes they might be confusing or very tough. But thats just the fun of this great game. Graphics are very nice in Myst. This game should be a must have for anyone who likes strategy-type games.Deep Cover Gecko is the third and last Gex game to be made. This entry was made with the help of british developer EIDOS in exchange for Crystal Dynamics' help in producing Soul Reaver and Tomb Raider: Revelations, but I digress.
This game picks up after Gex: Enter the Gecko with series baddie Rez kidnapping Gex's partner, Agent Xtra. Gex then heads back to the Media Dimension to save Extra and stop Rez once again.
Gex 3 is the second 3D Gex game and is unique in a few ways. Firstly, none of the levels repeat. In previous Gex games you would encounter multiple levels with the same theme. For example you'd complete a level based on horror films and then later in the game you'ld come across another one. Each level in Gex 3 on the other hand is unique. There is only one level per theme. One Mystery channel, one Anime channel, etc.
The Gameplay is largely the same as it was in Gex: Enter the Gecko. You control the camera with the shoulder buttons this time around, but it can still be a major problem when judging distance while platofrming. The other addition is a number of costumes that give you minor upgrades, like a vampire cape to glide, a superhero costume, or a tunic to make you strong. These are interesting and add some variety, however they're under utilized and don't show up very often. This game also appeared on the N64, however there are fewer voice clips and no 3D cutscenes. The other difference between the two is that the Mythology channel, a parody of the old Hercules movies and Clash of the Titans, has a different level design. On the PS1 it's set on Mt Olympus, and on the N64 it's set in Hades. Now a game changer, but a nifty fact.
Dana Gould returns to voice Gex, who is still amusing to listen to and Marliece Andrea plays Agent Xtra. If you're playing a PAL version Gex is played by Danny John-Jules, known for playing The Cat on BBC's Red Dwarf. The unique levels have their own set of jokes which greatly reduces the chance of repetition which was a problem with the previous games.

It's a shame that no new games have been made since, but this was a pretty good conclusion. It's a great PS1 game and a solid title for 3D platforming fans all around.The last time we saw Gex which was in the game called Gex: Enter the gecko he saved t.v. from a robot named Rez. Kinda wierd huh? Well in this game a woman named Agent Xtra was captured by Rez. When Gex was at home thinking about his last successes he decided to watch the news. When he was in the middle of watching the news he saw that Agent Xtra was captured by Rez. So Gex decided to go and save Agent Xtra. So he goes to the Gex caves and starts his new adventure.
What you gotta do is you have to go to new t.v. levels and collect as many t.v. remotes as you can. Remember, the more remotes you collect the closer you will get to Rez. In this game Gex wears all sorts of different costumes like Hercugex, Supergex, Privategex, Dracugex, Little Red Riding Gex, and Sherlockgex. There is a whole lot more, but I cannot name them all. Gex also has rides too like Al Nino the donkey which can help Gex go up hills that are too slippery for Gex to climb and Humps the camel which can help Gex cross sinky sand and there are a few others. There are secret characters that you can play in the bonus rounds, but you have to find them first before you can play them. There is Rex which is Gex's prehistoric ancestor and Cuz which is Gex's cousin.
This game is really fun to play and not only that, the graphics are very nice and colorful. The colors in this game are much brighter than the other Gex games which makes this game even better and more fun to play, but the camera is a bit slow, but that is ok. You will get used to it after a while. The bad thing about this game is that there is adult language in it. It says bad words like d--- and s---. While you are playing this game you will hear really, really, really funny one-liners from Gex, but some of them have bad words in the one-liners or shall we say quotes. Believe me do not let kids under the age of 10 to play this game. That was the reason why I gave this game a four star instead of a five star. But hey, this game is okay for the whole family anyway, if you have a child that is younger than the age of ten and you don't want your child to hear the bad words than you are lucky, because there is a way to turn off the voice of Gex that way Gex won't even speak at all. You can turn the Voice from Gex off by going to the pause menu.
Well that is all I have to say about Gex3: Deep cover Gecko. If you ever buy this game I hope you will like it as much as I did. Thanks for taking your time to read my review. ( - -,) ( ^ ^,) :)Following the popularity of Metal Gear Solid, Syphon Filter is a game that stands up very well on its own.  It has enough that is different that it can be considered a very good game in its own right.  SF has a very nice  blend of shoot-em-up and stealth missions that it is never the same thing  over and over.  However, it does find a few things lacking.  The save  system is horrendous.  You can only save at points that are very far apart.  The checkpoint system which allows you to restart at the last checkpoint  helps this a little, but being able to save a checkpoints would have made  this game much better.  Also, some scenarios are very difficult, especially  if you've been playing it through and miss one detail.  Most likely, it's a  detail that you will miss everytime, which can make a few missions very  frustrating.  The cut scenes are good and the game control is good.  The  wide variety of weapons is very interesting as well.  All in all, this is a  very good game marred by a very few flaws.When I was a kid, my cousin would never let me play it because it was his "newest game he had", while I had to play with my sega genesis, but once he sold it to me and I got it, I felt in love with the game.

The game it self is very straight forward and very fun. But many things that come up now that I did not see as a kid are evident.

-The game is too easy. The AI's have to lock on you to start doing damage, were by the time they lock on, you could easyly aim for their heads and kill them.
-The graphics looks like a bunch of blocks put together (the character models) which in my personal taste makes the game very hilarious!
-There are many glitches that you notice along the way, but aren't really game breaking
-Even with all these problems, the gameplay is amazing. For a PSone game, this is defenetly a very good game!Syphon Filter is a good 3rd person shooter with stealth elements.  People have to remember that this was one of the early 3d games that tried to incorporate stealth elements, so it is not as smooth as some of today's games, but it is still pretty well done in my opinion. The game has its flaws, but was a very fun game and the difficulty was just right.  Not too easy and the boss fights were pretty sweet and did require multiple attempts on my part.  I have the disc version for the PS1, so I cannot comment on the digital version.The game is excellent. The plot is good. I mean, what can be better than a deadly poison killing people? But the graphics could have been infinitly better. The faces are flat, and have hardly any detail, and that is in the movie scenes! The graphics are esspecially bad in gameplay. The guns, well let me just say it leaves more to be desired. Blood is extremly fake looking, but there is tons of it! But the actual play itself is very fun.
Now for the sound. Music is okay. Gun fire sounds are awesome. But the one thing that could have been changed are the voice overs. As soon as one is finished speaking, the other one cuts in right away. Not a very big deal, but it wears on after awhile.
Graphics 3/10
Sound 7/10
Gameplay 10/10
Blood Content 9/10
Overall 7/10Syphon filter is a notch lower than Metal Gear solid.  I mean,after a masterpiece like Metal Gear Solid, there is no way you can't compare any espionage games to it. The plot is shaky, and it's missing that smart dialouge.  But it's a fun shoot-em-up game.  So, by all means, get it.Its a great substitute for the Nintendo .I bought it for my brother, he installed it and it works fine.Seems to be working fine.  Although, not all the games we have are recognizing it, as an available memory card.  I have read, in other reviews, that if you copy saves over, from a smaller capacity memory card, those games will recognize it.  I don't have a smaller capacity card, with which to test this.why is it capcom never makes the hulk green he is always the wrong color on capcom games. thegame is fun animation good just the hulk's color is wrong  they either turn him pink or grey. good tagteam work ,i like the turbo and wolverine looks like the comicbook style not some asian styled version of wolverine. works well on the vibration sound is distorted but otherwise a fun game.I've been a big fan of the Street Fighter series since its outset. And to be quite honest, playing Marvel Super Heroes vs. Street Fighter only reminds me of how great the series used to be. Sure, the game is mildly entertaining, but without the true tag team gameplay that the arcade version of the game had, it comes off as just another Street Fighter game with Marvel characters. The character roster totals out at 17, with nine from the Street Fighter universe and eight from Marvel. There are five modes of play including battle, versus, training, hero battle, and crossover. Battle and versus are your typical one- and two-player fighting game modes. Hero Battle is an endurance mode that separates the groups to see which has the stronger stable of fighters. Nothing special here. Crossover mode, however, is at least somewhat interesting. You see, in the original version of MSH vs. SF you could pick two fighters whom you could switch between at any time during the fight. This tag team style of fighting was first featured in the arcade version of X-Men vs. Street Fighter but couldn't make it into the PlayStation port due to the technical limitations of the PlayStation. Sadly, the tag team aspect of MSH vs. SF was also excluded for the same reason. Sure, you can still pick two characters, but you can only play as one of them. The second character only comes into play when you execute a team combo or team counter. Crossover mode tries to bring the game's main selling point home. This mode allows you to pick two characters, then the computer uses the same characters you picked. This limits the amount of information the PlayStation has to handle to two characters instead of four. If you are victorious in this battle, the computer swaps one of the characters each of you have for another. This is done so that you aren't playing with and against the same two characters each fight. It gives you the tag team experience of the arcade, but having to deal with the rotating character thing and having to fight mirror images of yourself is extremely weak. Visually, MSH vs. SF looks good. But when you compare it with its arcade counterpart, it simply fails. The colors aren't nearly as vibrant, and the game suffers from quite a bit of slowdown. It still comes across better than the PlayStation version of X-Men vs. Street Fighter, though, because not nearly as much animation was cut out. This is a major plus, since frames of animation not only affect the game's appearance but timing and gameplay as well. On the gameplay side, Street Fighter fans will definitely feel the typical Street Fighter gameplay. But in the end, it's all a question of how starved you are for another Street Fighter game. Marvel Super Heroes vs. Street Fighter is all about the tag team mode, and with the overall exclusion of this mode, Marvel Super Heroes vs. Street Fighter is just another Street Fighter game.If you don't have a Dreamcast and you love Capcom's Vs. games, Marvel Super Heroes Vs. Street Fighter for Playstation is a decent alternative.  There are some notable flaws, as the Playstation hardware is just not made to run these type of games.  For instance, the biggest let down is the abscence of tag-teaming (the Playstation does not have enough RAM to store more than 2 characters within one loading session).  Then there's the animation...there are definetly more than a few frames missing, but once you get used to it it's OK.  However, there a few gameplay extras Capcom included to keep players interested: a "helper" character for each match, a healing vitality gauge, and a combo system that allows you to chain hyper combos together.  Best of all though, the gameplay stays relatively fast with minimal slowdown (with the exception of extreme activity).  This is another very noticeable improvement over the Playstation ports of Marvel Super Heroes and X-Men Vs. Street Fighter.  If nothing else, Capcom is to be commended for putting up with the Playstation's limitations to squeeze out the best possible port of this game.Despite it being licensed it has a large element of fantasy to it, hence "adventure". You'll be racing around volcanoes, pyramids and in the Alps. Is that a spaceship? It might be. This game holds up surprisingly well since the 90's and still offers a challenge and fun.For Beetle Adventure Racing, they decided to give a 1st time player only 2 tracks to play to start with!! Otherwise, to get more tracks you have to to go to Championship Race, and get the other tracks. I look at these cheat things on the Internet, and a lot of them don't mention that you can unlock tracks, so I wanted to tell people that yes you can unlock tracks - (6 racing tracks altogether) 4 tracks plus there are these multiplayer tracks to unlock. There are more multiplayer tracks, but these are simpler. They aren't real racing tracks like the other 6. Think of them like battle games such as the ones on Mario Kart 64.

Now, some people might say 6 racing tracks (other than multiplayer, that's it?? Cruisin USA 64 has 14 tracks.. However, the 6 tracks are not normal tracks. They are about twice as long as other racing games I have played such as Destruction Derby, Cruisin USA, Monster Truck Madness 64, etc. You can play 3 laps of a course such as Coventry Coves, and you are ending it in 7-8 minutes. This is without stops, or crashes. The handling is good on this game, so you probably wouldn't crash to begin with.

Again, the only thing I really don't like is that you to win the championship races to win so much. They should have had 6 tracks they give you already + 2 extra tracks you win with the championship races, and more cars to win with the championship races. It is what it is, but it's still a fun game.Electronic Arts was one of a small group of third party developers that supported the N64 with a decent amount of games. One of them, Beetle Adventure Racing, was exclusive to the system and proved to be one of the best racing games to grace the Nintendo 64. Released in 1999, it was an arcade racer with the physics seen in serious racers but poked fun at itself all throughout the game.

In BAR, you pick from a variety of Volkswagen Beetles and choose from one player mode(single and championship), two player mode(race only) and beetle battle mode (two to four players.) Select from one of six tracks (first one only available from the start.) and you're off! There are tons of stuff to unlock and the only way to get everything is by playing through the championship mode and beating the four difficulty levels. As you pass each track, it becomes available in the other game modes. As you beat the game under each difficulty level, you unlock additional versions of Beetles. There are "number" boxes scattered throughout each track. They count as points and need to be collected to earn "continues" and depending on the difficulty level, you need a certain amount. You can earn up to 100 points; collect them all and you unlock a multi-player track for the Beetle Battle mode (only one track is available from the start) Lastly, there are "flower" boxes hidden throughout each track. Finding them unlocks cheats that you can turn on and off under the options screen.

The PROS: There is so much content packed in this game, you get your money's worth instantly. First off, the graphics, music, sound effects, controls and game play are impressive for a racing game on the N64. Then, there is the satisfaction on unlocking the bonus content for you and your friends to enjoy later. This game shows how to give players an incentive to play through the game entirely and have something to show for it. Each track is huge and there are multiple surprises and shortcuts that each lap promises you a different experience each time. The different versions of Beetles are pretty damn cool and its worth unlocking all of them. The Beetle Battle mode is fun to play with your friends and is a game within itself (the tracks are huge so getting 3 more players is the best way to go.) This game will take you awhile to beat since it's quite challenging and that leads into...

The CONS:...right here. While BAR looks and sounds like an arcade racer, it uses real car physics so part of the challenge comes to getting used to how it feels and controls. The cars you start out with are slow and rigid while the ones you unlock later on control much better. Also, the A.I. cars start off slow and don't pose a challenge but as you play through each difficulty level, they go faster, bump into you and rarely make a mistake so don't be surprised if you have to try again to finish in 1st place. This game is for those who want to put in time to unlock all the goodies here so if you want to pick up and play right away, you won't have access to the entire game from the get go.

Beetle Adventure Racing is a great racer that while can be quite difficult at times, can be fun and is a good choice for those who like the San Francisco Rush and Cruis'n games. It's worth your money so those of you who like racing games and looking for a game to play with others, grab yourself a copy.Racing is my favorite genre and this is my favorite racing game. The controls are grab and go with no fine points of control. Something about them all being VW Bugs makes it appealing instead of boring. Driving in the slush and snow here approaches the feel of real driving in snow ie planning turns.There isn't anything wrong with the unit I received, my complaint is it didn't come in the original box or anything, despite getting it for a song, I had assumed it would.THERE ARE SIX LONG TRACKS TO RACE ON. I'VE ONLY SEEN FOUR.. COVENTRY COVE, MOUNT MAYHEM, INFERNO ISLE & SUNSET SANDS. THE TRACKS I HAVE YET TO PLAY ARE.. METRO MADNESS & WICKED WOODS. MY FRIENDS AND I LOVE THIS RACING GAME. IT IS WELL MADE, NICE LOOKING & EASY TO CONTROL. YOU MUST BEAT THE INDIVIDUAL TRACKS ON CHAMPIONSHIP MODE FOR THEM TO APPEAR ON SINGLE RACE & TWO PLAYER MODES. I LOVE THE BOOST BOXES, THE SHORT CUTS, THE CAMERA OPTIONS & BEETLE BATTLE MODE. IF YOUR LOOKING FOR A QUAILITY RACING GAME AT A NOW AFFORDABLE PRICE.. "BEETLE ADVENTURE RACING" FOR YOUR N64 IS AN EXCELLENT CHOICE.didn't work at first just had to warm it up its been working 30 days straight.This installment introduces some unusual elements to the series -- mainly the "instinct" gauge, which lets you look through walls and avoid raising suspicions, but I sort of miss the older approach where keeping your distance and hiding your face did the trick. (Plus you have to refill said gauge by disabling or killing enemies to be able to use it once it runs out). The visuals are vastly improved from Blood Money of course, and I appreciate their allowing me to play with my gamepad.

Some have criticized the fact that this game has "too much story" in it. I may be biased (even if I play an anti-hero, I like him having some motivation to pursue a course of action), but I didn't feel that the story took anything away from the gameplay.This thing is really great for those with a big PS2 collection. The only issue I came across was that Kingdom Hearts games would not recognize them, thus being unable to save. It was unfortunate, but I already had an official one from SONY to handle those rare exceptions. Would certainly recommend.When I first bought my N64 the expansion came with it. I didn't know much about expansion packs until I searched online. It basically improves the resolution and graphics in the games you play. I know that it only works for some older games like mario kart 64, or super mario 64. Required games are donkey kong 64 and the legend of zelda majora's mask. It's pretty good I guess accept I kinda wish it worked for all games.For all those people who complain that the Expansion Pak is not worth it because they cannot see the difference in graphics in certain games, make sure you are making said comparison with games that ACTUALLY utilize the Expansion Pak.

Here is a complete list of games that are enhanced by making use of the Expansion Pak:

40 Winks
All-star Baseball 2001
Armorines: Project S.W.A.R.M.
Army Men Sarge's Heroes
Battlezone: Rise Of The Black Dogs
Castlevania Legacy of Darkness
Command & Conquer
Cruis'n World
Daikatana
Duke Nukem Zero Hour
Extreme G2
Excitebike 64
F1 World Grand Prix 2
Gauntlet Legends
Hot Wheels
Hybrid Heaven
Hydro Thunder
Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine
International Track and Field 2000
Jeremy McGrath's Supercross 2000
Jet Force Gemini
Ken Griffey Jr.'s Slugfest
Madden NFL '99
Madden NFL 2000
Mario Golf
NBA Courtside 2
NBA Jam 2000
New Tetris, The
NFL Quarterback Club 99
NFL Quarterback Club 2000
Nuclear Strike 64
Quake 2
Rayman 2
Re-volt
Resident Evil 2
Roadsters
San Francisco Rush 2049
Shadowman
South Park
South Park Rally
Star Craft 64
Star Wars Episode 1 Battle for Naboo
Star Wars Episode 1 Racer
Star Wars Rouge Squadron
The World is not Enough
Tony Hawk's Skateboarding
Tony Hawks Pro Skater 3
Top Gear Hyper-Bike
Top Gear Overdrive
Top Gear Rally 2
Turok 2 Seeds of Evil
Turok 3 Shadow of Oblivion
Turok Rage Wars
Vigilante 8
Xena Warrior princess

The following Nintendo 64 games require the expansion pack to play:

Donkey Kong 64
The Legend of Zelda Majora's Mask
Perfect Dark
Tony Hawks Pro Skater 2

Just make sure that the seller sends you the OFFICIAL Nintendo Brand Pak, and not some third-party knock off, and you'll be golden.It works like the one for the N64.  It's a little bit bigger that you're not able to put the cover back on the N64.  I haven't tried it yet with Perfect Dark and any other games that require the expansion pack.  It's alright though.when i bought my N64 i really suffered for games, it seem like no one had N64 the games,EVENTUALLY i was able to aquire game like Doom N64 / Duke Nuken ect..... with less than ordinary graphics in comparison to when i got my memory epansion, Then came games like Donkey Kong 64 , Perfect dark , Zelda Majaora's Mask, well  let say that i really was impress to see the full potential of the N64 ,i always wondered why??? for the power that N64 had it was hard to see how Ps1 was so much more popular than N64, i know N64 had some really great games and the graphic was superior to Ps1, anyhow if you are a serious gamer the expansion pak is a must have and also you can experience the full potential of the N64 laterzzzz folks / gamers.....ill start with the goods first of all its nice having this little gadget for ur N64 for games like The Legend of Zelda:Majoras Mask that requires u to have it and Perfect Dark where u practically need it to get the most out of the gameplay now the few bad things its a little difficult to get out the original jumperpak with the cheap plastic thingy they give you and for some of the games there aren't much improvements with it they have pretty much the same graphics as the jumperpak but with like hydro thunder then u can have 4 players instead of 2 or 3 (i forget which 1 it is cause i don't own the game i just saw the reviews off of nintendo magazinesi just bought an n64, but i've played one before with and without the expansion pak.  though the pak does help with the graphics the n64 still can't touch the dreamcast or ps2 with regards to  graphics.  still the pak does let you play perfect dark so it is a must have.Some of the coolest new games coming out are going to require this to play so you better get yourself one now. It will be well worth it. It'll soup up some older games that are made to work with it as well.As a collector I absolutely love to pick up old retro games at the local Game X-Change. A few months ago I happened to come across a copy of Donkey Kong Land III for six dollars and made a point to snag it. I didn't get around to playing it for a while but when I did it really helped me out some unexpected ways.

Now, I'm sure you're wondering how playing a video game can quote unquote "help" you. A few years ago I picked up a copy of the original Donkey Kong Country for the Super Nintendo at the same store but when I played through it something felt a bit off. I just wasn't enjoying myself to the point I did when I played the game when I was younger. I wasn't sure if the problem was me or if it was the game... all I knew was I was going to have to play another game in the franchise (as a point of reference) to find out. Fast forward a few years when I got around to this and well, I had a blast. After completing Donkey Kong Land III I played a few more games like Donkey Kong Country 2 on the GameBoy Advance and the original Donkey Kong Land and those only solidified the weird fact that I don't like the first SNES game for some reason. Unfortunate (and bizarre) as that is I'm glad the whole series hasn't shared its fate.

Since I've finished this game I've played the other two Land games and while the original Land is good despite its problems (2 is oddly disappointing for some reason...) I feel this is the strongest of the GameBoy games and considering how little it costs to procure this is just an excellent game to add to anyone's collection. However, as good as Donkey Kong Land III is - and how rewarding the unlockable time trial mode is - the sad fact is many people have completely forgotten about the Land series. In a certain sense this isn't surprising given that ports of the original Super Nintendo games were made available on the GameBoy Advance but it's shame that these games are being passed up.

Regardless you can easily get about seven to eight hours of gameplay out of this one which is pretty impressive given today's second hand prices. If you're looking to introduce a younger gamer into gaming and want to do it with a less expensive system like the GameBoy Advance this is a great way to go.This game is great!  It is very challenging though.  The graphics aren't great but they work for this game.  Die Hard Trilogy is better than the sequel because it is more fun to play through.  It will take you a long while though.  The game follows with the movies pretty good.  All the modes on the game are fun but the driving mode is the hardest.  You will definitely love this game. Yippee Ki Yay!If you think that the "Star Wars Episode 1: Racer" is an effort to cash in on the _Phantom Menace_ hype, you vastly underestimate the  talent at Lucasarts.  As usual, they top expectations and deliver something  far beyond a merchandising tie-in.  This is a product which pushes the  boundaries of the racing genre. Take this feature-rich game out of the Star  Wars Universe and you still have a thrilling, easily-networkable ride.
The large number of different racers with different qualties is somewhat  _pro forma_ nowadays in the genre, but Lucasarts takes the idea one step  further.  By winning purses, you earn money with which to upgrade your  racer.  Thus there are a number of useful configurations which are only  possible through victory.
The number and quality of camera angles is  equally impressive.  In fact, the cockpit view is downright revolutionary.  From this vantage point, you feel the 400-mph+ speeds, and it's  comparatively harder in this camera to complete tricky courses.
Where the  game flags, I suppose, is in its surprising unfaithfulness to the film.  There's no ability to eliminate opposition by "dirty tricks", and  you can't disable the "i-crashed-but-now-i-have-a-new-racer"  feature.  The pod racers are absolutely indestructible here (though they  can be seriously damaged) and that's a disappointment.  I would've liked a  "harder-edged" version--perhaps one you could toggle on and  off--but it's a small complaint for an otherwise stunning effort.This is a very good game in a way that when you has seen the film you just have to get as the play is just so like the film. The game play is very like the film in many ways as if you split up the film in to sections then this game has a level in each piece of the film. You can even follow the story while playing it. So you don't have to have seen the film to appreciate this game but it will help as you will know what is happening throughout. It is quite a hard game to get used to but once you do, it becomes really good from there on and you can't get off of it as it is very addictive as you want to get to the next section of the film. The good thing is that it is not only just an action game like you would think but also very much a strategy one having to figure out where to go next. And to top it off you even play as queen amidala in one level! If you love the film like i do then you will love this!!The Phantom Menace takes you on a journey through the great moments of the film. It features very sharp looking graphics with a third person view (a la Tomb Raider.) There are many puzzles within the actions scenes. Each of the levels are pretty long and will take time for you to complete. The hardest of which is when you first meet "the mysterious little boy." There isn't much to say bad about the game except that it could have benefited from being first person rather than 3rd. Some of the camera angles are weird. Other than that, this is a very solid effort.For me, this game is just about as fun as Sonic Adventure 2. It will keep you going for a pretty long time if you wanna beat the game with all 4 storylines. And, who doesn't? The controls, for the most part, are pretty good. Although, there a times where you can accidentally be swinging a weapon and you'll swing yourself right off a cliff and die. That will happen more than once to you.

My biggest problem with the game is the camera sometimes. Especially when flying, the camera will be in a position where you can't see the ground below you so you'll have to guess as where to land. And you WILL guess wrong at least once. And you will die.

I'm not sure, but I think the PS2 version is missing some textures. Particularly when flying, the shadow below the characters is missing. The shadow is critical for knowing where you will land. Without it, it just makes things all the more difficult. I think the shadow is present in the Gamecube version.

But I love the level designs and the missions. I don't find them overly difficult. They're a challenge but that's a good thing.

If you're a Sonic fan, this is a must have.It's not exactly like previous Hitman games, but it is still true enough to the series and fun in its own right to be a good game. Not great, but worth the sale price. SCORE: 80/100.

Graphics are like most Squeenix games are now: amazing (Tomb Raider, Hitman Absolution, Deus Ex, Sleeping Dogs - they nail it HARD). Played on ULTRA at 1600p and it's a beast. It taxes the ASUS 290x even more than Tomb Raider, but I don't think it looks any better, so maybe not optimized as well. Regardless, stunning.

It is a bit more closed-in and linear but not linear in the way a platformer is or anything. Still multiple ways to solve objectives.

They have already said the next one will be true to form. Update this already beautiful engine, make it open world, and bam, perfect Hitman.This title marks Sonic's first launch on more than one platform...three to be exact. Finally a Sonic title is available on, not only Game Cube, but PlayStation 2 and XBox as well. The Story: Dr. Eggman has devised a new plan to take over the world, a newly reincarnated, and upgrated, Metal Sonic. That's right, Sonic's old rival from Sonic CD is back and ready for all new mayhem. It will take more than one hero to foil Eggman this time, It'll take twelve. But when Metal Sonic gets enough power to change into the all mighty Metal Overlord, will Sonic and his friends be enough to stop him? Heroes features a uniqe team based gameplay which includes four teams of three including: Team Sonic (Sonic, Tails and Knuckles), Team Rose (Amy, Big and new comers Cream and Cheese), Team Chaotix (Vector, Espio and Charmy), and Team Dark (Shadow, Rouge and new comer E-123 OMEGA). To add to the fun, each team has their own themed challenge i.e. Rose is easy, Sonic is medium, Dark is Hard and Chaotix is mission based. Also each member has their own affiliation: speed, flight and power. The game will tell you where you will need to use each character's uniqe skills. Overall, it's a bit challenging for a Sonic title, but it's worth checking out.Sonic Heroes is a pretty good game. The levels are super long, and some of the bosses will get you pissed out of your mind.  But after it's all done, the feeling of satisfaction is indescribable.  It's really good to finally be playing as Knuckles and not have to go hunting. The Chaotix are super cool too.  And for the record, HIS NAME IS ROBOTNIK!!!!!!!!!! What's with calling him Eggman?!!

Anyway, BUY THIS GAME!!! You'll be glad you did.this game requires the eye to play it you see yourself playing in the game. thought any one who never saw the game but thought it was just another sega game should know it requires the eye to play.I love the three person tag teams, the trios run togeather, but you can tag the next leader by pushing circle. Every character on each team has their own special moves, but the teams are all pretty well balanced, they all have a fast hero, a strong hero, and a hero that can fly.
The grapics are great, fast and great! It has a great third person view, the camera is behind and above the team, you can move to either side, you can jump up, you can fall down, it's just a great 3D game!
It's soo easy and plays smoth, my only complaint is it that it is too fast in some places, like in the giant loops I easily lose track of the Sonic, with him moveing from side to side he will run off a cliff and I won't notice it until he is deadIts a great game and really fun but also challenging at time. The game basically follows the movie with some extras here and there. The graphics are not the greatest but that is to be expected since its a Playstatin game. But overall i would say its a fun game and replayable.Thanks again for this I have been a pokemon fanatic ever since I was a kid. I couldn't ask for more thanks again.Always have loved pokemon series and the games. This is definitely my favorite one. Worked good but i bought collectible and it had the previous owners name in sharpie on it. I didn't like that but it works great.This is a great classic game.  You begin as a new Pokemon trainer, and soon select your first Pokemon.  The choices are Charmander, a fire type;squirtle, a water type;or bulbasaur, a fire type.  Interestingly, three Pokemon you choose from are like rock/paper/scissors, charmander beats bulbasaur, squirtle beats charmander, and bulbasaur beats squirtle.  Soon, you rival chooses his Pokemon(annoyingly, its always the one that has the type advantage, like if you choose squirtle he will choose charmander.  You are then given the task of completing a complete guide of Pokemon by catching all of them.  In order to beat the game, you only need the first 150 Pokemon, however, there is also a legendary number 151 Mew.  You catch Pokemon by using one you already have to weaken it, then catching it with a Pokeball.  Once you catch a Pokemon, you may use it to fight others, but you can only have up to 6 Pokemon at a time.  Along the way, you will encounter other trainers you may battle.  There are regular trainers, which you battle only for money, fun, and experience.  However, there are also gym leaders, which are specialized trainers with stronger Pokemon than regular trainers in their area have.  There are 8 in all, and once you beat them, you may then battle the elite four, who are much tougher than gym leaders and you have to fight all of them in succession.  You also encounter your rival throughout the game.  And he becomes Pokemon League Champion, however, once you defeat him, you become Pokemon League Champion.  There are also troublemaking team rocket members that you can and sometimes have to battle as well.  Their boss is also the leader of gym 8.  I have found the gym leaders and team rocket members are actually exceedingly easy if you know what you're doing, however, the elite 4 is very tough, especially since you have to face them all toghether.  There are also legendary Pokemon, which are considered to be part of the 151 total, and they are very rewarding but challenging to catch.  Also, one cool thing is there is a lot of moves(although some are kind of stupid) and certain Pokemon have strengths over others.  For example, fire takes out grass easily.  However, you can beat the game just by having stronger Pokemon, however, this is actually harder than using strategy.  Because it takes a great length of time to level up, while a skilled player can quickly catch a Pokemon with a type advantage.  And to the guy who said he beat this game in a hour....if you think this game is easy, than you should quit playing videogames altoghether, because you obviously are such a great master of everything.  Also, IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO BEAT THE GAME IN A HOUR!  AT MINIMUM, YOU HAVE TO PLAY IT FOR AT LEAST LIKE 20 HOURS FOR YOUR POKEMON TO BE HIGH ENOUGH LEVEL TOO!  Oh, wait, you must have used a gameshark.  Wow, no wonder you are so good at videogames.  But if anyone tells you they beat the game in a hour, they either cheated, found a big glitch, or both.  Or else their exaggerating.  But the only way the game could really beat that easy is if you had a strategy guide.  "Oh this game is so easy, I only had to read 50 books on it to beat it on the first try."  GET REAL!  IF THIS ISN'T A CHALLENGE, NOTHING IS!  Overall, its a great game, but there are some annoying things.  First off, to get all 151, you must trade with freinds, as neither red nor blue has every Pokemon, but they do combined.  Most Pokemon are in both versions, but some are exclusive to either red or blue.  Also, as you level up your Pokemon, they evolve(which is really more accurately described as metamorphises), and some only evolve by trading them with the same Pokemon with another player.  Another thing is there is only one save slot. Finally, in the Japenese version, by getting the first 150, you get number 151,but in the US version you can only get them through Nintendo's promotions or by cheating.  Hmm, giving Americans a raw deal, aye Nintendo?  You know we buy into your promotions instead of demanding that you make stuff available in the games.  In Japan, gamers would be outraged, but you know you can take advantage of us Americans?  Okay, go ahead.  But despite the fact that it isn't as good as the Japenese version or a perfect game, Pokemon Red is still one of my favorites.Let us be honest with ourselves. This is an old game. And yet it rocks most hard, say thankee. It's also highly addictive.

The point of Pokemon is simple: catch cute, little, animated talking monsters with magic, plastic balls, and use them to kick the living daylights out of the cute talking monsters of your enemies. So in truth, it's a lot like real life.

Plus, said monsters are fully changeable. You can give them a name, teach them special fighting skills, and even control how much they grow. This makes them much better than hamsters as pets go.

Plus, its got ninjas! I'm not only talking about a ninja master who uses Pokemon to duel you (I guess he never learned how to use shuriken or swords or stuff), I also mean you can name you Pokemon things like: Mifune or Hayabusa or Zatoichi or Swordsman with an Umbrella (that probably won't fit). Of course, you can also name it Winky-dinky-do, if it do please ya. But I digress.

Yes, Pokemon shows its age among modern video games. But so does Pong. And Pong is still mildly amusing. But without Pong, there'd be no Pokemom. And without Pokemon, there'd be no modern video gamage. And without video games, I'd have to actually face my family, friends and problems, and learn actual skills! So play Pokemon! It's better than Pong, and many other video games. Trust me. I've been there.I have no idea why I still play Pokemon from time to time.  I was into it before it became popular, and I still enjoy the games (not the cards... ...) more than 2 years after the fad breathed it's last.  Yes, new titles have been coming out, but no one seems to like them very much and they are not changing the game enough to make them worth buying.
  Anyway, about the game.  You start out as a young boy living with your mother, and set out to become the world's greatest Pokemon trainer.  When you try to leave town, Professer Oak will give you a starter Pokemon (the only real difference between this one and Yellow is that in Yellow, you MUST start with Pikachu).  Once you have picked one, you must battle your rival, and then you can leave.  The rest is obvious...
  The main reason I still like this game is that it has amazing, Zelda-esque depth to it.  Many puzzles, and 15 element types of Pokemon.  Certain types are stronger against others, while each type has its weaknesses, too. There are a total of 150 Pokemon to be caught.  However, some only appear in the Red version and some only in Blue.  You must link to the Blue version to catch all 150!  (To make this easier, some people buy a Red AND Blue AND a Game Link Cable so they could complete the game on their own).
  Overall, this game is surprisingly fun and amusing, and has a great depth to it which will please many RPG (role-playing game) lovers.  Great game, so if you like RPGs or adventure games, get this one, if you don't already have it.By now every man, woman andchild has heard of pokemon, and it's reputation.  The cute little animals you catch in a ball and then force to fight eachother has captured the hearts of kids in America, and the wallets of parents.  Many people hate this game with out even giving it a try.  Why is that, the overly priced, merchandice, the barbaric card game (banned in many elementary schools and pre schools nation wide) and terrible TV show and average movies...  When looking at all the [stuff] it's easy to forget the concept, and enjoyment of the game itself.
The game is an RPG, meaning experience building and random battles, all in a quest (in this case) to become the best.  You have a rival (who you name) and the two of you compete through out the entire game.
because this is on Gameboy (before Color) the graphics are dull, plain, boring.  However after getting past that you have a very deep, very fun, and very addicting game.  Catching 151 of the creatures (151 through either gameshark or Pokemon Conventions) and in these cases it is a little difficult to put the game down.
Overall the game is worth playing because it is a lot of fun, forget the [stuff] that it spawned and play the first game, if you are an RPG Fan you will not be disapointed.This type of RPG was easy to master, because at the start of the game, I chose Bulbasaur for this type of match.  I used him in the first 2 stages of the game, but sometimes the rest of the game.  Whenever you use a fire-type attack on an ice/water type, it will either say "It's super effective" or "It's not very effective"  Otherwise, this game's a blast to play, with 150 different pokemon characters to choose from.  Go buy them both.  You'll need them to link up to Gold/Silver.Came in manilla envelope without original box and papers, who really needs that stuff anyways? I bought it used for a reason.
Game is 10/10 GOTYAY
Label was intact, no sharpie on my copy either.I am not much of a star wars fan but this game is fun. I found it for $3 at a used game store. It was worth it. Its actually more fun when playing multiplayer and with the steering wheel. I also enjoyed the star wars game shadow of the empire.This was a great buy for the N64. I was inspired to buy this game after seeing the movie scene with the Podracing. So all an all you start off as a noob and work your way to the top buying parts for your pod. You can choose from many racers. I give this game the rating that it got for its fun with some frustrating races.This is a very fun game, possibly the best "racing game" I have played. I normally find them very dull, "Nascar 64 anyone?" However, as a racing game, I enjoyed this immensely.

Here is the flipside. This game is not NEAR as good as, say Hydro Thunder, or Need for Speed. The best thing about this game is the multiplayer, as the single player gets old fast.

My reccomendation, find a friend, rent the game, and have fun!Well, I love moving this fast in a vgame. I enjoyed playing in the Tatooine course, and the made-up levels actually seem like real STAR WARS designs, unlike Rogue Squadron 2. Often you're racing through a level, and you kind of want to stop playing....but you don't, because you want to make the next turn, or just love peacefully gliding over the land at that speed. I never got into tuning up the racers, maybe there's something lacking there. You aren't often right beside the other pod, it would have been nice to implement an element of slamming into the other pod to have a fun/dangerous fight while performing the race, if that option were here and was fun, it would provide an all-new level of depth/excitement to the game, maybe if you had to avoid Subulba like the film. I thought I heard there will be a sequel to this game, hopefully they will optimize it for the next-gen systems like Xbox, because they didn't when this was merely ported to Sega Dreamcast. A sequel would make a cool online game, but make they could introduce AOTC areas or make a 3-4 more Tatooine levels. The graphics here are very smudgey, I would advise getting the PC or DC version or something, but it's worth getting as it is so [inexpensive] now.A really good game. You get 8 characters to play as, and 4 unlockables. 9 stages and lots of items. First player mode is fun (and really hard to unlock nes). Playable up to four players. Free for all and team modes are available, as well as time and stock modes. Overall a great game that is fun for people of all ages.while melee is by far my favorite, brawl and the original come close. one has nostalgic value, while one is a good way to continue the series. I love the game whether i am alone or with friendsone if the top 5 nintendo 64 games of all time.just as good as mario 64 to me.it is one of the most popular tooThis game is good, but SSBM is much better. My favorite character here is Donky Kong.Okay there is only one bad thing about this game. So now there is meele and 25 characters! but there is only 12 in the other. I am best with Captin Falcon. I am worst at Pikachu. Please Please Please do not laugh at my reiview. I am only 9!Super Smash Brothers is one of the most unique ideas to hit the gaming world since first person shooters featured deathmatch.  For this game it features numerouse memorable nintendo characters such as Link, MArio, Pikachu, Samus Arron, Fox Mcloud and more in basically a battle royal.  The real fun is wehn you gather a group of friends and go into battle.  The action is almost always intense.  However I do have a few complaints about the game.
1: Character Diversity.  On the primary roster Three of the 8 basic characters come from one form or another of the mario universe (Donkey Kong, Yoshi, MArio) and then Luigi as a hidden characeter.  So basically after all the hidden charactres are unlocked (a royal pain in the ***) one thrid of the roster comes from the mario universe.
2: Story Mode: Basically in story mode you go through variouse fights, one on one, an army of characters, tag team, handicap, so on until you face the master hand and in the end it turns out your character is just a (What you thought I was going to spoil the ending).
So overall this game is great if you have a bunch of friends over, however I would rather own the Gamecube version and that basically this is a rental for a weekend party.My brother and I rented this game numerous times and in the end finally decided to buy it. It is actually quite fun to play, with many arenas and many of the famous characters from Nintendo. Each character basically has their own arena, and all of the arenas have their advantages and disadvantages. This game is especially recommended as a gift for a child.
What I love about this game is that you can play with as many computers as you want, and they can be against you, or if you want to have fun they can be on your team. You can have timed battles or die from losing lives.
Pros:
1) Fun multiplayer action
2) Computer feature is great---you can set computers skill level
3) Good training level, where you can control many things, and add items and make the computer do things to help you train
4) Just Great!!
Cons:
1) Certain characters are hard to get (like Ness)
2) Less advanced than Super Smash Bros Melee
3) Controls are sometimes difficult
This is a great gift for anyone who is young (especially) and for anyone with a N64.a great game for 2 or more players. when i first played this game, it was really fun an challenging. after a while though it gets boring. if you play it alot it gets too easy and its not as fun anymore. if your going to play it you really need at least 2 playersWhat can I say? Smash Bros. is just an awesome game. This is the only game you can get where all of your favorite Nintendo characters come together on one screen and battle it out. I recommend calling over 3 more of your buddies and playing it because this game is nuts when 4 players go head to head.
Overall I give Mario Smash Bros. 4 stars. I took off a star because after you obtain the 4 missing characters, the game is basically over. You can still battle with your friends, but like most games, it starts to get old after a while. I recommend it for ages 5 - 15.SSB is an original fighter that is always fun to play. It has four unlockable characters, one unlockable arena, and some other secerets. The only bad part is it is a little to easy(even on very hard). But this game is addicitive. Short Version: Graphics: 4.4 Sound: 4.2 Control: 4.3 Fun Factor: 4.7 Total: 4.4The game is ok. When I rented it for 5 days, it got boring at the last day. My brother got Jigglypuff using DK. I would rent it before buying it.  If you like it, buy it.This game is the one my kids play more than any other on their Nintendo. They have other games, they rent other games, but they keep coming back to this one.
They like the two player option. They like the challenge  (they're not teens yet). They like the many characters that can be chosen  from different games. They like being able to set their and the opponent's  skill levels. They just love this game!
I personally wish it were a  little less violent, but compared to other games out there, this is a  teaparty. So if you're a parent looking for a fun game that will give your  kids hundreds of hours of play and one they won't get tired of, buy this  game.do i really need to say anything else? classic duke nukem game. one of the first i played for the playstation. great fps with decent graphics for its time. and of course the classic duke nukem "battle cries" always make me laugh.

good classic imo.Good memory card it has a good saving memory I like it after I lost my other one I got this one buy it I recommened itToday i saw this game at the store for 12 bucks, and i'm gonna pick it up since i have a PS2. I rented it 2 times (after that the dumb stores got rid of their copies) and it was better than the sega saturn version. The graphics didn't have the neat lighting effects, but the game was a whole lot more like the pc version. If you have a PC get that version, if you have a ps2 get this version, or both. I'm probably one of the biggest Duke fans in my area, i have the origional Duke 3D for PC, the Atomic Edtion , The sega saturn version(my 1st copy), Duke Manhatten Project, Time to Kill, Land of the Babes, the Duke Nukem album, all of the Duke Nukem action figures, The Duke Nukem screen saver pack, and now this. As the great Duke would say "Holy S@$T!" Any way if you are one of the few who don't have a PS2 yet here's what will happen to this game.. You know how these losers say the game looks flat? Lie! You know how they say the N64 version looks better? They fogot to tell you the game is cut up (no nude chix), and the textures are super-low res. But with this vesion, when you set up your PS2 for smooth texture mapping, it will make all the "2D" images get smooth edges, and the textures will be nice and smooth. Since the game is almost all sprites(which isn't realy a bad thing at all, easier to edit on pc) Every image on screen will look close to a PS2 game! The reason i don't give this 5 stars is because you can't edit it like the PC version.Although the Game Boy Advance is on the way, the original Game Boy (here in 'Colour' form) is still going strong, and is still the only mainstream  hand-held console.
Compared with the sadly-missed Neo Geo Pocket the  screen is slightly less vibrant, and sorely needs a backlight (although  adding one would decimate the battery life). Technically, although the NGP  was 16-bit, there doesn't seem to be much difference, and in any case it's  the quality of the games that's important. This is the Game Boy's strength  - it has an enormous, ever-growing range of games, some of which is  excellent (the third 'Wario' game, for example, or 'R-Type DX', a faithful  recreation of 'R-Type' on a tiny screen). There are some more esoteric  applications, too, including a camera, a sonar (really), productivity  software, and a sequencer (as used on Alec Empire's 'We Punk  Einheit').
As a possession, it's highly desirable - it's small, stylish  and easy to hold, and apart from the fragile battery cover, it seems very  solid. It's slightly bulkier than the Game Boy Pocket, but not  off-puttingly so, and keenly-priced, too. Only the high price of the  cartridges could put people off, but with several million Game Boys out  there (many of which are presumably restricted to playing 'Tetris' and  nothing else), there is a thriving second-hand market.I liked it unfortunately it is not very similar to the original Mario brothers but still enjoy playing it.Graphics: 8/10 - Ridge Racer Type 4 is plausible in this area. The car designs are fantastic and the roads are clear and well-crafted.
Sound: 9/10 - Fantastic! Not too much of this comes from the cars themselves, but the groovy soundtrack, great commentator and crashing sounds give this baby a boost!
Value: 7/10 - A fun car racing game that lasts a long time and challenges you to do better. But in this genre, we have seen games done better and you might want to go off and play them instead.
Overall: 8/10 - What can I say? I thought this was a blast. It was fun, energetic and speedy. A good instalment to the Ridge Racer series. The cars were brilliant and the Great Gran Prix is the best part. However, Ridge Racer Type 4 loses points because it is simply too much like Gran Turismo and you might tire of its same-old routine. Still lots of fun and recommended!Came a little worse for the wear however it works but the screen is a little unclear and not bright enoughCondition wise color was faded and a bit dirty but screen works and same with the audio so I give it a 4.5For anyone who remembers the classic gameplay of the origional Super Mario Bros. for your old 8 bit Nintendo Entertainment System back in the mid 80's  rejoice, its back!  The simple nature of this game makes it so wonderful.  Its easy for players of all ages and skills to learn very quickly, but will  take hours to master.  Super Mario Bros. is a true Video game origional.  Its simply was the first well executed game of its kind.  A side scrolling  adventure game, with tasks to be completed that require skill and paitence,  not just mindless button mashing.
The Game Boy color version is no  different.  It is a perfect translation of this timeless classic, so give  it a whirl and fall in love all over again!I want to play ps2 games and i needed a memory card and this fits the bill just fine. It can hold many games so if you buy it you will be able to own more gamesReally great for an old school Game Boy Color. It has very few scratches on the screen but the battery case is still there. Despite the minor astetic wears it plays well and the volume works perfectly. I would have given this five stars but the scratches were a minor problem that stopped me from doing so.This product is in perfect quality. The screen is in perfect condition, though not as bright as it seems in the product picture. The atomic purple coloring is also not as vibrant, but that is not the companies fault. That is simply how Nintendo made them. I'm a pleasantly pleased with this product and will be purchasing from this selller again.Does what it's supposed to do.
Nice to have the extra memory. Now I can store more game saves.
Satisfied with purchase.I liked this thing. It played in color, but used up batteries fast. The sound isn't all that great (too quiet), and the screen scratches easily.this isn't bad i have it and it works great i think this is better then alot of older systems like game boy or super nt but still its a good system.<div id="video-block-R1HCQT1UO5OGTM" class="a-section a-spacing-small a-spacing-top-mini video-block"></div><input type="hidden" name="" value="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/E1MoyZzlJHS.mp4" class="video-url"><input type="hidden" name="" value="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/71nlP7pB6mS.png" class="video-slate-img-url">&nbsp;(Watch video for demonstration on how the card works and shows how to the card reads on the PS2)

One of the most amazing things is when you can, not only find new ways to bring your old consoles back to life, but go even further and find ways to STILL find more uses. Ever since the Playstation and beyond, companies have put out tons of items that help give new life to an old thing.

This memory card is no exception to that rule. I have had this memory card for well over a year now and it has not failed me yet. (This is not to imply that it will last forever, you should always make backups just in case) Imagine now being able to save ALL your game saves on 1 memory card instead of having to look for spare room on an existing 8-meg memory card. Being able to hold 16x more than what a normal memory card can is pretty remarkable. Although there have been a few odd moments that make this a bit of a... well... not so much a problem as it's more of an annoyance.

(One example of annoyance you will have to deal with is that certain games will "READ" your card first before it will "WRITE" to the card to save. This can take as much as 2-3 minutes before it will finally do anything, and that can cause a problem if either you are not a patient person or you suddenly get a power spike to hit while in the middle of a save where it READS before it WRITES.)

Other than that, the card works on just about every game I have played (Numbering 150+ games on my PS2)

Overall, all I can say is I have not had that much of a problem with it and it has kept working for well over 1 year now. Of course, like any electronic device, experiences will vary from person to person. But for the price, you can't beat it.Street Fighter Alpha 3 - Circa 1999

GOOD:

- Good Balanced 2D fighter, considered a classic to many hardcore 2D fighting fans

- Lots of modes to unlock and lots of fighters to choose from

BAD:

- Loading times, very short but still there

- Graphics might be dated for some people

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:

- Not over the top like Guilty Gear X/X2, Marvel Vs Capcom, or Capcom Vs SNK

- Old School type game play and not combo heavy

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- King of fighters 2000 and up

- Fatal Fury: Mark of Wolves

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- Last game in the Street Fighter "Alpha" franchise (as of 1999)

- Has all fighters from Street Fighters Alpha 1 and 2 as well as a few from the old time Street Fighter's like Street Fighter II: The world Tour

- Street Fighter Alpha is called Street Fighter Zero in Japan

- Practicality same game on Sega DreamcastStreet Fighter Alpha 3 is the best Street Fighter experience one can have on the original Playstation. With well over 20 characters selectable from the outset, classic Street Fighter gameplay, and multiple gameplay modes, this is one fighting game worthy of adding to any gamer's library.  There are a few faults though. Some animation problems are present here and there (some characters have newly animated moves that don't quite fit with their old set of animation frames), the endings could have had more attention paid to them, and some of the music is rather bland.  Also, for those of you who may not know, the Alpha series is supposed to take place between the events of the original Street Fighter and Street Fighter 2.  So why are we seeing characters appear that are from the later versions of Street Fighter 2, such as Deejay, Fei Long, T. Hawk and Cammy?  Even though Capcom may need to work on the story a bit, it's still nice to see all of the Street Fighters together in one game, so I'm not complaining. Even though there have been countless versions of Street Fighter before it, Street Fighter Alpha 3 proves that you can't beat a classic formula, and that the series is still very enjoyable. Unless you're completely burnt out on 2D fighting games, I recommend picking up Street Fighter Alpha 3 for either Playstation or Dreamcast.I am confused by the claims that this joystick does not work with XP.  XP is plug-and-play: just hook up the USB adapter and plug the thing in.  It registers perfectly.  Go to control panel and mess with the calibration and test all your buttons - that works perfectly as well.  One drawback in not being able to use the W95 software is a lack of ability to reprogram the buttons - no biggie since most software will let you do the same, but I dropped one star for that reason.  XP users - don't concern yourself with the disk that comes with the joystick, just plug the thing in and get on with the games!After having tested several joysticks, this is the one I kept coming back to.  I've had a version of this joystick on my system for two years, and have yet to find anything better.  I don't at all agree with the ......  editorial review that says it's got stiff joystick movement.  Quite to the  contrary, it's capable of very subtle movement.
Plus, it's got lots of  features without being over-engineered. I especially like the fact that it  comes with both throttle and rudder control within easy reach.  The button  cluster on the stick itself is very sensibly designed, with all major  buttons a comfortable distance apart.  The hat is cleverly devised as well,  being both solid and flexible.  Most importantly, perhaps, the software,  now at least two years old, is very stable, and allows you complete control  over each button.
Yet, there are some people who might not find this  product enjoyable.  As others have commented, it is a very  right-hand-centric design.  Since there are a host of buttons on the  left-hand side of the base, you can't hold the joystick in your left hand  and access those buttons without crossing your hands.  Also, the cluster of  buttons on the joystick itself are designed to fit the right hand.  If  you're a right-handed person, this design is ergonomically perfect.  It  literally fits in the palm of your (right) hand.  But a left-handed person  has no business whatever buying this product.
Neither does a Mac owner.  This product's USB connectivity, though convenient to Windows users, does  not extend to the Mac.  That's an unfortunate oversight that, one suspects,  wouldn't be all that difficult to correct.
Still, if you only intend to  use this thing on a Windows machine, and if you're right handed, you'd be  hard-pressed to find a better joystick.I bought my controller from gtsboy for $22.99. It came in good shape. You could tell it was used because the buttons moved easily and they weren't stiff (that's a good thing!). However, the joystick had a problem. The character would keep moving forward without the joystick being moved so I had to open it up and clean it a bit, but other than that it was a great buy!Thin plastic kinda turned me off but the stick was fine not perfect but it's how all my old controllers used to be. Worn in, and all buttons are responsiveGenuine N64 controller. Tight joystick and quick delivery. Product as described. Cable is in good condition. The product doesn't look as dark black as the controller in the image, but I'm not sure if that is because of wear or not.It works to my expectations. I wish they Didn't demand a certain number of words since i don't have that much to say.A used original Nintendo brand N64 controllers is far superior than a new aftermarket brand controller. I've tried a few aftermarket brands and they end up falling apart (literally) are otherwise breaking while my used original Nintendo brand controllers still function. The main weak point of any original Nintendo brand N64 controller is the stick. This is almost always the part to fail, so much that sellers know a "firm stick" is a selling point. There is no question as to whether this will happen, but how long until you have to fix it... No worries, when your stick gets loose, buy a stick replacement. Replacing the stick is far less troublesome then some of the issues I've faced with the aftermarket brands. Completely satisfied with this purchase.Bought this and May Flash N64 Controller Adapter for PC USB for My Laptop and after i installed it and googled how to set it up to work with games on my computer in a couple of minutes i had my new N64 controller all set up and ready to play games on my PC and i've used it many times and still works as good as the day i got itI would say that Lunar is a worthy RPG and definitely still worth playing if you have an appreciation for the classics.  However, it may not be worth paying the exorbitant used prices (the cheapest I found my copy was $60, then one of the discs was all scratched up and nonfunctioning, and I had to buy new discs for $30!  Yikes!).  Anyway, let's see if Lunar withstands the test of time.

Graphics (score 8/10): Well, since this version of Lunar (the Playstation version) was enhanced from the original, it looks really good for an older RPG, especially when compared to the playstation ports of Final Fantasy V and VI.  However, the graphics are still undeniably dated.  On the bright side, anime cutscenes are interspersed throughout the game. There's also an anime portrait whenever they speak, which adds much needed detail to the characters (so you can see what they really look like).

Music (score 7/10): Music is decent, nothing that would make you buy the soundtrack or anything.  There are a couple vocal tracks in the game, which are also decent.  Thankfully, Luna's singing voice isn't too grating on the ears.  I still don't understand, though, why everyone in the game keeps referring to her amazing singing voice, when in my opinion, she is only average.  Well anyway, there is limited voice acting in the game during scenes and also a couple battle phrases.  The voice acting is pretty good; the only voice I'm glad we don't hear much of is Nall's, which I imagine would get really annoying (it's high-pitched and squeaky).  You don't get to hear much voice acting anyway, since it's really only present during cutscenes.

Characters (score 8/10): Characters are likeable and amusing.  They do have a decent amount of depth to their personalities, so you really come to be attached to them.  Because the story is so basic, the likeable characters are really what keep this game afloat.  Also, some of the NPCs are downright hilarious!

Story (score 7/10):  Lunar is certainly no Final Fantasy VII.  The story itself is pretty basic.  You start off as Alex, who sets off on a quest to become a Dragonmaster (person of status who helps keep things in order and peace).  Then the story falls into the old pattern of finding X number of things (in this case, 4 dragons) and saving the world from a power-hungry would-be ruler along the way.  This is sort of the formula for every RPG in existence, but at least other games add in unique and intriguing twists on this old formula to keep things interesting.  Lunar's storyline really has no extra twists or new concepts in it to keep things interesting (thus it relies on excellent characterization).  I really wish the game had explored certain concepts in more detail, such as the why the Vile Tribe rejected Althena, Ghaleon's motivations, and Althena's personality, motivations, and origin.  However, given the age of this game, the lack of story depth is forgivable.  After all, almost all games made during this time period were pretty shallow story-wise.

Battle System (score 8/10): Battles are a basic turn-based system.  The usual attack, defend, magic, item commands.  As an interesting twist, you can move around the battle screen, thus making position a part of strategy.  The only complaint I have with battles is that there is an "A.I." command, whereby you can have the battle automatically fought for you.  I didn't really like this because the option is listed first in the menu, which means you'll spend some time accidentally hitting it.  It would've been better if they'd put it at the bottom of the menu.  Well, this isn't really a big deal since the cursor in the game "remembers" where you last had it and always starts up there.  So, once you turn on the game and select "command", the next battle will have the cursor already on "command".  This was quite convenient.

Gameplay (score 7/10): This is a bit of a catch-all category for me.  One thing of note is that the menu system was a bit confusing, at least for me.  I really felt that it was needlessly complicated and I never quite got the hang going through it quickly.  It's rather annoying having every party member have their own "equip" menu when you could just have one big "equip" option, and then just select a character from there.  I also hated having to physically put equipment in the person's hand before I could equip it.  It would've been better to just let me select a person, and then have every available piece of equipment in inventory for them pop up in a list.  Shuffling items from Nall's inventory to each individual character's inventories is a pain, especially if their inventory is full, and you have to move items out first.  Well, anyway, also of note is the leveling system.  Bosses are always the same level as Alex is, but regular enemies all have their own preset levels.  This means that you must strike a delicate balance between under-leveling and over-leveling.  I really liked this feature since it kept you from having to level grind all the time.  Also, enemies appear onscreen--so there are no random battles, which is awesome.  Overall, the gameplay is very smooth and enjoyable, especially for an older game.

Overall (score 7/10): NOTE this score is not an average; it's my subjective overall score.  Overall, this was a decent, enjoyable game.  Even though the story isn't the best, I really enjoyed the characters and they kept me playing.  Is this game worth playing? Yes.  Is this game worth the eventual $90 I had to spend on it?  Definitely not.  I personally don't think this game is worth more than $40.  If you can find it for less than that, then go for it.  If not, then you might want to try the GBA remake, Lunar Legend (though I don't know how good it is, since I've never played it).  If you don't happen to ever play this game, then it's no real loss since there are plenty of contemporary RPG's available that are much better.This is an old fashioned RPG that may not appeal to those who have only known the likes of Final Fantasy X, FFX-2, and Xenosaga.  There's not a lot of cutscenes here to help tell the story.  No fancy soundtrack.  Very little voice acting, which is a shame considering the voice actor for Ghaleon did a wonderful job. There's nothing like an elaborate prologue or ending that you got out of Xenosaga. Instead, gamers will have to depend on lots of reading and playing to make the story unfold.
Battles are quite challenging.  Basically, you plan the moves for all of your characters and then turn control over to the battle system.  There is also an option to have the battle system fight for you, but this mode is not recommended.
This game's story is very mild and shallow compared to the other RPGs mentioned above.  LSSS's strong points are definitely fighting and solving puzzles.  The story is a lightweight.  And definitely not for those looking for something along the lines of "epic".Originally released back on the Sega Saturn, Working Designs ports it over to the Playstation, VERY NICELY. The original great game is here, with a few good enhancments. The best one being the Anime scenes. Very well done, and they help move the story along nicely. The game's not up to par with the likes of most Final Fantasy games, or many other Square/Enix RPG's, but it's definitely a must have for any RPG fan.
Gameplay: 8.1/10
I'll start with the battle system. The battles you run into to aren't random; you can see them on the screen, and avoid some of them if you don't want to battle. A lot of them are impossible to avoid, though; this is needed, so you aren't just running through the game not fighting. You have the usual attack, run, and skills during the battles. When you have your character do a physical attack, he will move to the enemie he's attacking and stay in that spot while the enemies do their attacks. Some of the enemy attacks will move your character a spot or two back. This way, there's some strategy involved on the placement of your character. Each enemy has a certain amount of spots it can move, so if you want to stay away from some of them, don't attack an enemy that's surrounded by other enemies, because they all will be in attacking range, and they will all get a good attack in on you. A lot of the times, I didn't really worry about this, but it's a little added strategy to the battles other than the usual fighting. One of the more useful ways of taking advantage of this, though, is to defend on one turn, let the enemies move close to you, and then hack and slash away. This way, you don't move in without getting an attack on your enemy, and letting them attack you. Be smart, and you can avoid a hit here and there. The battles are turn based, by the way; none of that meter stuff seen in most Final Fantasy games. Really either way is good to me.
The way skills are learned in this game is just your basic learn a skill at a certain level system. Example: Learn a small healing spell at level 5. There's no custom way of learning your attacks. You have to realize, that this came out in the early 90's, where there was only a game here and there had a deep system to go along with it. It gets the job done, but it's not as advanced as some RPG'ers would like. I didn't mind, though. Don't let this turn you away from the game. You will miss out on a memorable experience if you do.
The areas in this game are big, good looking, and fun to work your way through. Your usual RPG stuff is here. Caves, Villages, Castles, etc. They offer up a good challenge, too, which you can't say about a lot of RPG's out there. It's not impossible by any means, but it's not easy either. Good challenge. The world you travel through is well designed, and pretty big. As a whole, you won't find a bad or boring level in this game. It's an expansive RPG world, with many fun challenges along the way.
The characters are very good. They are pretty artistic. A couple basic looking ones, but overall, they have my pick as some of the better ones in an RPG, ever. The character development is not too bad, either. It's not the best, but you should soon care for each character atleast a little. Especially the main ones like Alex, and Luna.
I like the story a lot. You won't find a deep, complex plot. You get a straight-foward, hero defeating the villian, type of story. There's a good surprise here and there, but not many. You will grow to hate the villians, and the story, while not being too complex, pulls you in and doesn't let you go until you finish the game. I guarantee you will enjoy it.
I take off the 1.9 because the battle system can get repetitive near the end of the game. The boss battles have you basically using the same spell per character each turn, hoping you have enough left to finish him off. This makes the usual fun boss fights, a little less fun than normal. Atleast they're challenging, though, since they always have the same level as your characters. I didn't take off any more for the semi-basic storyline, and not so deep skill learning system because of the time it came out. That's something you have to realize when playing this game: it was one of the best for it's time.
Replay Value: 6.5/10
As with a lot of RPG's, it's not very good. I, and many will play through again for the positives I mentioned above, but there's really no incentive to come back and play through the 25+ hour quest again. Only for the hardcore RPGer, I guess.
Music: 8.2/10
Overall, some very nice tunes scattered through out the game. It's not mind blowing like some of the Square soundtracks, but it's a good one. You will enjoy it for the most part, I know I did.
Graphics: 9/10
I'm basing it on the year it came out. The levels,and battle graphics look stunning. With that said, though, the characters suffered and look pretty bland. That's the reason for the 1 point off. Not a major problem at all, though. Especially when you play this one for the gameplay, like all RPG's.
Overall:(Not an average) 8.5/10
For it's time, it offered a fun battle system, great graphics, a good story, and clever, fun level design. One of the best games in the genre at the time, and rightfully so. It has taken a slight hit over the years, but overall, it has stood the test of time pretty well. RPG fans would be wise to not miss out on this. With the special package one, you get tons of extra goodies; well worth the money, although it's only possible to find it on sites like Ebay. If you find it, go for it. You will not be disappointed in the slightest at this classic RPG.
I recommend Lunar 2 as well. It improves upon this game in almost every way.Ok.. I'll be honest here. I read couple reviews and sensing that this game is 'bit' over-rated. (I sense people who wrote reviews frowning) I did finish this game and trust me, I had lot of expectation for this game. I haven't played the Sega CD version of it and actually blamed one of the reviewers from EGM, who gave 8.5 when rest of them gave 9 or higher. I thought this game deserves at least 9, I mean, look at the animation, the title animation is one of the most well-represented animated beginning ever, and the music was just amazing.  I was constantly humming the tune because it was so, so, SO GOOD- couldn't help myself from humming it all the time. Not only that, Working Design did a fantastic/excellent job on putting in all the extra you are getting with this game, it's simply amazing- I'm left with no choice but to give credit for that.  However, after I finish the game, I realized that I came to conclusion too soon, when I did play only beginning portion of the game, mesmerized with beautifully animated movie scene.
I wasn't inspired or felt that heartache or anything like that..
  I mean, characters are adorable and the story is good enough to pull you in, however, it wasn't just strong enough-
So when I read several reviews saying this is the best RPG for PS or anything like that, I just couldn't agree with what they were saying, of course, everyone has right to their own opinion, but in my humble opinion, I just didn't feel it.  It seemed to me that I'm more attracted to the games with more stronger theme, like Xenogear, and Lunar falls into mild-themed game, which is, of course, enjoyable.
I didn't buy the sequel, Eternal Blue, which comes with more extra and whole box for the game looks great, however, I wasn't inspired enough to purchase Eternal Blue because it wasn't just there to hook me, wasn't just there...
Well, it's definitely your call.. so if the price is reasonable for you and plenty of time, then give it a try and see how it goes. It's nice to have this game if you are a collector, however, I wouldn't buy this game if you are picking this ONE RPG to enjoy in your busy life, because there are better RPGs out there for PSOne in my humble opinion.If you are looking for story as the driving force behind an RPG, then this is a game you will enjoy.  Lunar doesn't rely on graphics or amazing sound.  It relies on the strength of its storyline.  The graphics are the type you'd find on an older system, which makes sense because this game was originally released on the Sega-CD.  This comes with two bonus CD's. One is a soundtrack, which is nothing to be excited about since the music isn't something you'd want to listen to outside of the game, but is a nice touch.  The other is a making of CD that was rather interesting because you get to see how much the people who made this game were into it and cared about the finished product.
One of the neat things about this game is all of the voice acting.  It's such a nice touch and really adds a lot to the game.  The female voices can seem rather whiny and too high pitched (which could be said of the males at times too), but other than that, it's quite good.  Also, there is a lot of pop culture references and innuendo going on that make you laugh.  That may be the best thing about the game.  The story is fun.  The game is fun.  You have fun playing the game.
It's not new.  It's not full of eye candy.  But the game is very enjoyable and worth the money if you enjoy playing with a good story.There are very few video games from over 20 years ago that still go strong in the second decade of the 21st century. Myst is one of them. I remember playing this game back in 1993 and getting my but whipped with the puzzles. I recently replayed it and found myself in awe of how well constructed it is. Of course, graphics have advanced since 1993, but Myst shows game developers how puzzles should really work.

Unlike too many games today, Myst brilliantly evokes a sense of wonder and mystery. When you start the game, you're just thrown into a new world with no explanation. You are left to explore and discover. There is a story with shocking twists, but the story depends upon your involvement and choices, not simply handed to you.

The puzzles require a lot of time and thought. If you don't like puzzles and thinking, don't play this game. If you like challenges, Myst will challenge you. The puzzles often require you to make connections between separate pieces of information or view your environment in a new way. Some are frustrating and I did need to look at a hint guide a few times (particularly for the Mechanical Age elevator) but they all do have a logic.

Unlike other reviewers, I found the one area Myst doesn't hold up well is in building an immersive environment. Myst as a world doesn't have a logic. There's a spaceship, a boat, a clock tower, etc., just sitting on the island. It seems more like a video game hub than an actual world. I think Myst makes up for its lack of internal logic by leaving so much mysterious and presenting you with such intricate puzzles that you want to explore the world.

Overall, Myst was a historic computer game back in 1993 and is still worth playing 20 years later. From the early 1990s, I personally preferred Presto Studios' Journeyman Project, which also had a compelling point-and-click adventure and featured pre-rendered 3D environments. However, until that game gets rereleased, Myst is easily the best point-and-click adventure readily out there.

Note: the game is also available on iPhone, iPad, Nintendo 3DS, so there's no excuse not to try it out.The hit 1990s game "Myst" set off the immensely popular "Myst" series, as well as "Myst" spin-off computer games. The game is fantasy-based, puzzle game, incorporating unique locations and mechanical motifs. While a bit outdated in some ways, the game is intriguing and fun and well worth buying.

-Plot

You play a character who finds themselves stranded on a tiny island. While exploring, you begin to discover the dark past of the island which you are visiting. Using ingenious "linking books" you can access other islands and unravel the truth behind the lonely, mysterious worlds.

-Environment

The environments, while not necessarily beautiful, are well done. There are a total of five islands, all with different motifs. These islands, or "ages" include:

-A world with half-sunken boats and flooded tunnels.

-An age with a spinning building.

-A Cyprus forest with a network of treehouses.

-An odd, out-of-this world island with a gigantic tunnel.

The environments can be rather dark at times. In general there is little character interaction, leaving the player dealing mostly with puzzles and exploring.

Music drifts in and out of the game, with some locations dominated by the sound of wind while others have music in the background. The music alternates between very dark to dark tinged. While the game does not have catchy tunes, it suits the game quite well as background music.

-Characters

There are few characters, and interaction is limited. There is a selection of journals in a library which provide interesting reading and histories of the various islands.

-Puzzles

This game is a puzzle game. The puzzles are generally mechanical in nature. The puzzle solutions can be illusive, but puzzles are generally not incredibly tedious. Once you have solved puzzles once, they can generally be solved again quickly, allowing you to replay the game without worrying about coming to mounds of impossible puzzles yet again.

If you enjoy puzzles that involve common sense more than mathematics and like interesting and unique worlds, you will enjoy "Myst." The game has decent replay value. The game is rather old, and an updated edition called "Real Myst" is available on Amazon. However, for a genuine piece of gaming history, the original is the way to go."Myst" is the one that started it all.  "Myst" is the game by which all other role-playing games are measured.  No one had any idea when the game first came out in 1993 that it would eventually become the best-selling computer game of all time.
Rand and Robyn Miller, the brothers who created the wildly successful game, hit upon a winning idea.  Place someone into an unknown world where the clues he or she uncovers reveals the story.  And one of the biggest perks of all - you can't die.
"Myst" starts off by dumping you on a dock overlooking a vast ocean.  You can hear water lapping along the dock, and a wind makes the hair on your neck stand up.  And from there it only gets more interesting - you discover books that can link you to other worlds like this one, more commonly called Ages; you encounter all sorts of devices that, even though they don't appear to do much, are all part of the underlying thread tying the game together; and just by wandering around you immerse yourself in the world that is "Myst."
Occasionally, I meet people who are baffled at the success of "Myst."  They don't understand how a game where you just walk around and solve stuff can be so appealing.  There is little or no character interaction, they say.  I've noticed that a lot of these same people are those who like those "shoot'em up and splatter their guts all over the wall" type of gamers.  The reason "Myst" has been so successful is because it so pure - you don't have to worry about dying, you use your head to get your way through things, and each new Age you encounter is just bursting with intriguing things to discover.  That and each world is beautiful.  Not as jaw-dropping as "Riven" and not nearly as mesmerizing as "Myst III: Exile", but "Myst" has a subtle yet majestic beauty that makes it stand apart from other games.
If you have never played a computer game before, give "Myst" a try.  You will be surprised at how addictive it can become.  Did I mention that there is no possible way in which you can be killed?  Seriously!  How many games today offer that?  There's a reason why it has been such a hit; millions and millions of people can't be wrong.This Game is a good game depending on your personality.  If you like to drive around in a car in  New  York City or shooting up alien invaders,in other words you like games with a lot of action, then this is probably not the game for you.  there is no action, or enemies.  Myst is more of exploring and puzzle solving.  It requires quite a bit of patience to play.  If your looking for an adventure/puzzle game then you should get myst. in my opinion it is a great game.  one of the best i have ever playedPlaying Shadowgate 64 was my first time playing any Shadowgate game....and I gotta say, this sure was fun as hell.

It's like a first-person shooter....but....not. You're in first person mode, and you go around searching for clues in the castle. Doesn't sound like fun, right? Wrong. The graphics are beautiful and the levels are nicely done and full of goodies. Going around solving the game's many puzzles isn't tedious in any way....it's a joy, and it's a journey many should take the time to take.

Sure, the game has a few downsides....one being that your guy walks around like a lumbering beast. Slow as hell. And then the other is that there were a few times I died cheap....like thinking I would be able to swim, jumping into the water, and immediately drowning, because obviously elves didn't get the poolside lessons....lol. Oh well, though, it was actually good for a laugh. Just save your game often, and get this game now!!!

Overall, 9 out of 10, a solid title to add to your N64 collection.I enjoyed this game where I was a character locked in a dungeon, had to find my way out and then around castle Shadowgate to finally meet up with the main bad guy. This is not a slash around killing game, it is a puzzle and thinking game. You walk around picking up things, talking to people, doing things a certain way to see what happens. You can get killed in this game, so be sure to save often, your last save point is where you will start again if you are killed. You need a memory card to save with this game! I did get stuck in the game several times, at least 3 times and had to write to Nintendo to find out how to proceed! But with their help I made it to the very end. This game is appropriate for children that can read, as you must read to play the game, and there is no goulish violence.I played it a while but it was alright. The steam was a bit of trouble. The more they move these game to steam the more of a hard time I have activating and playing a game. But in spite of that it was fun, I liked it. Now I am looking forward to anno 2205 I really want to play my way to the moon.Given the success of Myst, a sequel was inevitable. Riven is both a sequel in spirit and in its story. The game takes place just after Myst and takes the player to another age where you meet Atrus' father and wife, amongst others. As in Myst, the story is told through journal entries, puzzles, and a few cinematic scenes. Riven does develop the story more than Myst did, with more cinematic cutscenes and longer books. Overall, I think this is a great addition and the actor who plays Ghen (Atrus' father) is actually quite good.

Like Myst, Riven is a challenging puzzle game. Overall, the game isn't quite as challenging as Myst because the relationship between the puzzles and solutions aren't as attenuated. However, there are a few cases where I felt like I knew what information I needed, but didn't know where to find it. This is particularly problematic in a point-and-click game with limited movement. I was particularly frustrated with learning the Riven numbers - I knew I needed to in order to learn a code, but couldn't figure out where to get the translation! Also, there is one thing in the very last puzzle which is a real pain - something impossible to see that needs to be moved.

The graphics in Riven look beautiful, even 15 years later. The Riven environment is gorgeous and has some really startling landscape. However, the geography in Riven is supposedly 5 times larger than Myst's, but because most of the game occurs within a single Age is actually does feel a bit smaller. Moreover, I felt like there were more "corridors", or areas that had no function other than to serve as space between two other areas. Myst by contrast was extremely compact. I'm not sure which is better, but I'd guess that in terms of puzzle content the two games were about equal. I would have preferred a bit more environment and fewer corridors.

Ultimately, Riven is a worthy sequel to Myst and follows its predecessor closely. If you like Myst, you'll probably love Riven. If not, Riven probably doesn't offer anything new to change your mind. Recommended.This game actually stands up to the test of time, as opposed to Myst part one's antiquated technology, and ancient graphics...Unfortunately, I never got to play these games when they came first came out, and being spoiled with all the improvements in the visual department over the years, had to start with Riven instead of Myst. The game is probally the largest and most meticulous effort of all 5 games, simply for being a little larger and a little more designed then many of the future under-developed, but beautiful lands Myst would take us to..Obviously this game is for a certain type of "quiet" gamer, who prefers exploration and figuring out how to work a puzzle out over visceral, button mashing action..If those attributes do intriuge you as a gamer however, there is no better place and example to start with then the legendary Myst series..Riven is a worthy followup to Myst and still must rate as one of the alltime great adventure games.
Those familiar with the Myst series will know some of what to expect: lush visuals (although in static form, no 360 rendering), a detailed storyline, fiendishly clever puzzles, much mysterious machinery, and a need to respond to and interact with the environment in order to solve the game.
There are some important differences to the Myst series.  First of all, rather than exploring a number of different worlds, or 'ages', in Riven you explore one (albeit large) world, comprised of five islands.  There are links to two other 'ages' but these are very sketchily developed and there is not much to explore here.  There are some differences between the islands, but the radically different tones of the ages in Myst or Myst III is missing.
This has its advantages and disadvantages.  The world you explore is much larger, and you can progress over virtually the whole world without needing to solve many puzzles, allowing even a casual player a good glimpse at the world of Riven.
However, it also means that the puzzles are less contained and linear than in the other Myst games.  As well as a number of smaller puzzles, there are two major puzzles to be solved, clues for which are scattered throughout the islands.  Even with the smaller puzzles, the control to open a vital door might be located a long distance away, or only accessible via a very circuitous route.  This can add another degree of complexity to the puzzles.  Having said that, there is a degree of logic to most of the controls which are based on the culture and lifestyle of the inhabitants of Riven.  The puzzles generally also operate in a logical manner and relate well to the entire environment of the game.
There is little action for the punch-em-up enthusiasts - but they're unlikely to be reading the review anyway.
In summary, a fantastic game that will engross you for hours - I just wish more alternative ages could have been included.This game is great! It's not as good as Myst, but it's still impressive. This games backs right up to Myst, so if you hann't played Myst, you will have NO idea on whats going on! Somthing thats better the Myst, the grapics. I don't know how good they are on PC because I've got the playstation virsion, but the graphics on that are awsome! My opinion on buying it or renting it is you should buy it if you've played and BEATEN Myst. But Bloskbuster donen't carry this game.I havn't played Myst yet, but I have completed this one. What an immersive game this is. Great graphics, great sound, great features to play with and great fantasy world. Riven might only be a small world, but it's well worth the visit. You even get to see some alien creatures here and there. I give this 4 stars because the puzzles were a bit too hard for a lot of gamers. It took me 3 months in all, WITHOUT HINTS I might add. If you like fantasy, puzzles and exploration. GET IT. It's worth it just for the graphics alone.Riven is a worthy sequel to Myst, and takes the Myst "mystique" to another level with five new worlds and an expanded story line.  The brilliantly realized environments and mood-setting soundtrack draw you in  immediately and keep you there until the sun comes up.  Riven is not for  gamers with short attention spans--simply navigating and charting the  accessible areas of the Age of Riven take patience and time, and solving  what I would characterize as the two major puzzles requires all of the  intelligence and tenacity one can muster.  As some reviewers have said,  having played Myst first is helpful background to have, but this is not  because the puzzles of Riven are similar to those of Myst, but because Myst  will acquaint you with how the creators conceive puzzles, and heighten your  sensitivity to factors in the environment that bear noting and  investigating.  I gave Riven 4 stars, rather than 5, for two reasons: (a)  one of the major puzzles is sound-based, and after some long and  frustrating efforts at solving it on my own, I obtained some hints on the  internet and found that the solution required matching up particular sounds  from the game that, in fact, simply did not match up (at least not in the  version that I bought); and (b) one other crucial clue is a tiny, blurry  image.  In these respects, I felt that the creators did not play fair.  Two  other points:(i) contrary to what some have said, it is indeed possible to  lose this game and meet an untimely end, so be careful out there, and (ii)  recognize that the CD-Rom version is on 5 discs, which need to be changed  every time you travel from one world to another--if you have a DVD-Rom  player, by all means spring for the DVD version, which consists of one  disc.Once again you put your hand to the book, and enter another world...this time, Riven, in an effort to find the wife of your host.  Yes, it's still basically a slide show, and yes, there really aren't any other people to  interact with, but it's still beautifully drawn, with gorgeous environments  to explore, and atmospheric music to soothe you.Ape Escape is on one of the sleekest action games on Playstation, which is, in theory, a pretty low-power console. The graphics, despite being  rather choppy, are colorful and well-textured. Most of all, the game has a  high frame rate with no noticeable slowdown to speak of, which allows  things to move quickly and smoothly. The control scheme is intuitive  despite being complex at the outset. Fortunately, no action you can take  requires pressing more than one button. Right shoulder buttons are jumping,  left shoulder buttons center camera and bring you into a first-person  lookaround mode, digital d-pad moves the camera, left and right sticks move  the character and the selected tool respectively, which the X, triangle,  circle, and square buttons select your tool. Also, the controls are quite  tight, which will save you much frustration from falling over cliffs and  such. The camera is one of the best I've ever seen. It rarely swings around  the character, although at times I did experience a few odd, glitchy  perspectives, such as from behind walls and from under floors. Fortunately,  the camera is spring-loaded to auto-center on the character.
The level  selection is the usual cliche pretty meadows/volcanoes/robotic factory  fare, but in order to fulfill your quota of monkeys (capturing  anachronistic, and very agile monkeys is the point of the game) you will  have to navigate your surroundings in all of the three dimensions and  utilize all of your equipment (monkeys are caught with a net, enemies are  disposed of with a "force club", you can glide with a hand copter  to reach higher ground, or swim via help of a motorized sub), which is part  of the appeal. The levels are large and complex.
The game is relatively  easy, but the frantic excitement it creates will make you play it over and  over again.Unfortunately, the greatest hits edition freezes during a certain cutscene and is unplayable. Fun and hilarious game overall, just get the original version.If you're trying to build up a classic PS1 collection, make sure to include this wonderful lil platformer. It may not be the quality of Crash Bandicoot, but then again not many games live up to that series.How can you go wrong with obtaining a 128 Megabyte memory card for the PS2! It's exactly the same size, there is no size fitting issue, it looks and acts like a regular memory card, and has fifteen times more space for saved games then the regular 8 Meg cards!

The only problems I have encountered with this card is that some games it is not compatible with, and the game will say there is no Memory Card in the PS2, or sometimes it doesn't read it at first, so try again and it should. I've never had to try more than 2 or 3 times.

The only games I have found it wouldn't work with was "Stuntman Ignition" (possibly "Stuntman" too, but I have not played it) and I can't recall the other one, but currently I own around 100 PS2 games, and it's been fine with all but 2 or 3 games! But don't complain, just use your existing 8 meg card, or buy one from a pawn shop or somewhere for a dollar or two, and use that for those games, and the rest on this awesome card!

Known games this doesn't work with that I have found.
- Stuntman Ignition.
- Guitar Hero games. (works fine with Rock Band tho)
- Action Replay Max (cheat device can't save data to it)Ape Escape consists of more than 20 3D levels based on a variety of time zones. To clear a level, Spike (played by you) must capture a set number of monkeys. After filling that quota, you must access the next level. Reaching the monkeys will require you to jump, sneak, swim, climb and fly through a variety of situations.  To help you on your way, you are given a net and a lightsaber type stun club.  Throughout the course of the game, Spike will collect six additional gadgets.  In addition to providing the means of completing future levels, returning to previous levels with new gadgets will allow Spike to capture any monkeys he left behind. In addition to monkeys, each level has tokens to collect. Collecting enough tokens will open minigames.  This game gets addicting pretty fast.I saw this game, and it looked amusing, so I got it. I soon found out that it had unique gameplay and was unlike any game I had played in the past. It's really fun, and you get hooked on it. Plus the unlockable mini games are a cool bonus. The problem was the camera (which could really be annoying at some times) and the challenge. Here's my tip: If you're an advanced gamer, 12 or older, rent this game, but do not buy. Most 11 year olds, and even some 10 year old have found this game easy. But if you're younger than that, you'll go ape over this game.This IS the funnest game I have ever played. If your looking for a game with good graphics, this isn't for you, though. But if your down with old school hardcore action then you need to buy this!Duke Nukem 64 isn't a bad game. In fact, it could be one of the best on N64. I don't know. I haven't played much shooters on N64. But, I do own this and chaotic DM with 2 freinds and a bot couldn't get better. Quake 64 and Doom 64 can't offer this much fun. THis is essentially a port of the pc game, but with new levels and add-ons to existing levels. I recomend this game.This is one of the best shoot 'em ups on the 64. This game is pretty much the same as the PC version, but with more levels, extended levels / or added bits and peices, and a few new toys.

It pretty much feels just like the PC version but it's a little darker on the graphics. You will have to run trough the game control settings to find the right feel for you if you're like me and where used to using the keyboard.

Most of the cool stuff is still there from the PC game. There is the same sayings, some new ones, same levels etc.. whats missing is the adult content the PC had packed into it. So some things are different like, there is no strippers dancing around, and you can't go up and press OPEN to throw them money, and the posters are different etc... infact the second levels strip club has been completly re decorated into an out-door loading dock with trucks. Thats a bit of a disapointment that that stuff was replaced to tone it down.

There is some new toys to play with, but overall, there isn't enough weaopens. There is a hand gun, shot gun, machine gun, plasma shooter, grenade thrower, shrinkin ray, enlarging ray (new weopen! enlrage you're enemy till the explode!) and a few other ones. But compared to something like Goldeneye, there feels like harldy any guns to choose from.

I used to love to use cheats on the PC version, and with this 64 version, there are a couple of cheats, but there's none to walk through walls which I do miss.

(...)it's pretty hard to stay alive, so turn the god mode on and enjoy it.yippie ka yay, Duke established himself as a major rugged man in this title. Classic shooting the same style as doom. Filled with jet packs invisibility and loads of guns! A shooter fan will appreciate the history and even the multiplayer versus bots that is sure to entertain for hours!The game is cool but a lot of the levels are really dark. A lot easier to play with cheats. Im on level 23 and there are still more to go. Its two players which is the only reason its good. Otherwise zero hour is way better.I remember getting this game and being blown away! The aliens, the gore, the raunchy bad @$$ hero Duke Nukem...AWESOME!

Ofcourse now we have Call of Duty, Battlefield, Dead Space, etc... But if you are wanting a vintage gem pick up this game!  I stayed up countless nights with friends playing through the game in co-op mode and facing off with each other in team death match.  Solo player itself was quite challenging, and still is.  I have always felt this game sort of set the stage for FPS along with Perfect Dark and Golden Eye.

Bad points:  It can be irritating because it is so challenging.  Also, there are a lot of extremely dark areas of maps that make it hard to see (maybe even impossible).  At the time of its release I thought the graphics were great, but now that I play through it again, they are kind of disappointing.  I mean, still decent for the time but considering similar games that were on the 64...they could have done a bit better.

Good points: Weapons are awesome.  SMGs, plasma canon that evaporates everything in its path, pipe bombs, shrink ray allowing you to crush your enemy, expand ray that enlarges them until they explode...HA just coolness.  Combat boosts were always a neat item that I wish had been in more games.  You can also aquire a jetpack, Vitamin X, holoduke to confuse enemies, dumdum (explosive) pistol rounds, and many other helpful items.

Fairly smart enemies and a wide variety of aliens.  Challenging bosses as well.

A lot of objectives on each map.  Rescue the hidden "babes", find keycards, solve lock puzzles, even crush toilets and drink the water to regain health.  And you get a good number of maps too!

I would suggest picking this game up, you get a lot of play time out of it.  Its a good blast from the past for us who miss the N64 on occassion.I got this game and I thought it was going to be just an okay game. Did I ever find out how wrong I was! The game is absolutely addictive! You can play as the Global Defense Initiative (GDI)the good guys or the bad guys, who are simply called the NOD. There are 15 GDI missions and 13 NOD missions. There are also two exclusive N64 only missions for each side. The grapihics are okay, but not anything real fancy. If you want to run the game in High Resolution mode make sure you have an expansion pack; this also makes the graphics better. Just remember to go to the opions menu and select High Resolution everytime you play because if you don't the game will run on Medium Resolution. When you use and airstrick for the GDI or use a lot of flamthrowers, flamtankes, or a Nuclear Missile for the NOD, the game play will so slow down to a crawl until the fire stopsm but after the napalm is it out the game goes back to its normal speed. When a soldier dies he spills over and a little pile of blood comes out and then it disappears along with the body. If you run over enemy troops with tank or something, you get a squishy sound. When a soldier dies you may hear a scream. These are the only violent grapcis in the game. The music is great at times, but some of the tracks are boring. This is the best strategy game for the N64! A little hint to help is that the NOD are great at whiping out infantry while the GDI are better equipped to handle tanks and defensive positions. When you are capable to produce tanks and vehicles build vehicles instead of infratry because a NOD flame tank or a NOD flamethrower can wipe out a lot of infantry with no problem at all. If you play as the NOD then build turrets and light tanks to take out the GDI forces. You can use a group of light tanks to run over infantry. Also another hint is that if you play as NOD build some recon motorcycles in the later missions when GDI uses ORCAs, they are kind of like helicopters, to harrass you and if the recon units are in guard mode they will attack the flying pests. This is definitely a must have since new N64 games are no longer coming out. Some of the later missions can take up to three to four hours to complete. Have fun!I never got the chance to play this growing up. I finally went out to buy it to see what all the hype was about, and it took me back to memory lane. I love the soundtrack, and love the overall interactive design. The interaction factor can keep you engaged. The story was always weird to me, and felt like patchwork, but now that I am older and wiser, I can make sense out of it now. After playing through this recently, I can saw that for its time, it may have been seen as the greatest ever, but I have a few grips I don't like about it. Yet, still it is good game! I played Crisis Core first, so next will be Dirge of Cerebus. To any fan or newcomer to Final Fantasy, such as myself, I highly recommend this game, but you will have to set aside alot of time to get the most out of it.EDIT: This _is_ actually a 128Mb card according to my PS2. However, apparently some games aren't able to see that much space. Persona 3 FES, for example, calls it an 8Mb card. Otherwise, it appears to be a good value for the money. If your games do not have difficulty with the size, then go for it. (End of edit 28 Jan 2012)

If you think the price is good for an 8mb memory card, then by all means, go ahead. Although the card and the packaging are both labeled as 128mb, unless you are more fortunate than I, you will find yourself with no more than 8mb when you insert it into the PS2. Funny that the guys at the local game store had never even heard of a 128mb card for PS2.Ahhhhh  FF7, fond memories.  The first RPG and first Final Fantasy game I ever played.  Sweet mother of god you are ugly now!
All things aside Final Fantasy 7 visually is probably one of the ugliest games in existence, but the story, characters, combat and track keep it still relevant nowadays for a reason.  If you're  into classics or are curious, I shouldn't be the only person recommending you FF7.Haven't beaten it yet, but I'm INCREDIBLY impressed with the graphics, great music, and fantastic artwork! Gameplay takes some time to get use to though.The cut-scenes were alright, the game-play was excellent, and it really was a superb game for its time.  I just had a hard time going back to the old graphics.I love Final fantasy games and they never fail to be fun. This game was a lot of fun. I wouldn't say I love it though because there are ways it could have been better. It definitly was an awesome game, especially for such an old one.I had never played this game until this year; I wanted to see if this game lived up to its name.

My previous experience with this series includes X, XI, and a touch of XIII; I have to say that while I enjoy parts of X, on the whole I hate these games.  Most of this hatred stems from having more hours of cut scenes than hours of actual gameplay.  I also like RPG's to have a roaming element; I like being able to explore and I like finding sidequests and items.  I did not get that with these titles.  I expected FFVII to be the same and just riding its reputation.

Bad news first.  This is a PlayStation 1 game, and oh my does it look it.  This is an ugly game.  Battles aren't bad and cut scenes could be worse, but walking around is bad.  When exploring an area, it's often difficult to identify exits, ramps and ladders, and various "switches."  There's a command that highlights ladders and exits to other areas, but ramps and switches are still hidden.  This option has saved me some headaches, but it's aesthetically displeasing.  RPG's hadn't started the "journal" thing yet, so skipping dialogue (even accidentally) or coming back to game after a busy week can lead to some confusion.  The combat system because combat isn't intuitive and that there are a few too many status effects, some of which can easily break the game with a bit of bad luck.

Good news.  The characters are varied and this together with the materia system allows for a wonderful amount of customization and different play styles.  The characters themselves, while definitely cliche, have decent back-stories and fairly strong characterization.  I've heard a lot of complaints about character angst in this game, but I think those complaints are exaggerations and what angst is there matches the story and characters well.  The plot itself is solid and has plenty of twists.  The combat system works.  I say it's complicated and unintuitive, but it functions well and allows experimentation with different tactics.  Most importantly, there isn't a single algorithm for success; there are a variety of viable strategies for combat.  Most sidequests are fun, and while you don't need the sidequest rewards to beat the game, those prizes are often quite powerful but not overpowered.  This is nice as said sidequests neither feel like fluff/padding nor only masquerading as optional.  The net result is that the game rewards exploration and experimentation.  An additional nice touch is that grinding is, on the whole, unnecessary.  The cut scenes are well done, always convey something relevant, and never overstay their welcome.

Summary:  The graphics are bad enough to be a turn-off, but this is the only thing that doesn't hold up well.  It's a long, fun game with plenty of replay value.  The combat is complex, but it works well and that complexity allows the player to be creative and to try some very interesting things.  This game certainly has its problems, but its quality is undeniable and it's rapidly becoming my favorite game.While this game may not be the very best RPG in my opinion, I must give this game credit for being able to finally throw the RPG genre into the mainstream for two gaming generations. This game was the first game in the series to feature stunning FMV with 3D character models in pre-rendered backgrounds, which was a major step up for the RPG world, considering that any RPG released before this one either only had 3D models during battle sequences or none at all, but of course graphics are not everything. Gameplay will always matter much more than the graphics in any game; it is the sole reason games are played, to enjoy the game itself with graphics just being an added bonus to the already great game itself.

This game still maintains the fast-paced ATB system where the characters must react in a timely manner to defeat the enemies or bosses that will cross paths with the characters controlled in the battles. One of the greatest highlights of this game is that this is the first game in the series to have a science fiction based plot otherwise unseen in earlier titles, and very few other RPGs at the time.
This game is also the first in the series to add character peripherals such as "materia". Materia can be equipped and can be made more powerful each time it is used.

Overall, I would highly recommend this title to advanced and beginners alike, as this game has a straightforward level up system with a neat addition of the character peripheral I have mentioned above. This should last one a good 50-70 hours, depending on whether one decides to undertake the various sidequests offered in the game or not.Everyone complains how great or how bad this game was. To me when it first came out I loved it, it was the first Final Fantasy game I played i was like 9 or 10 years old. I still like the game a lot yes now it has bad graphics but they were cool back then. The story was good but at times made you laugh. Cloud was alright but there has been better but I thought sephiroth was a great bad guy and to me the best character in the game. Yes it is long but I enjoy games that take time to beat and it wasn't very difficult to beat. I enjoyed that there was a lot of extra stuff to do in the game besides the main storyline which is smoething games are missing these days.

All in all I still enojy playing this game as most of the other Final Fantasy's, my favorite is 9 to be honest. They all have good and bad things about them. So it's not my favorite game but its still one of them.All "cloud's giant sword" jokes aside, this game has one of the most loyal fanbase in gaming.
Is it worthy of all the fanfare?

Well, i don't thing it's worthy of rabid fanboyism and a 200 dollor price range, but it is a damn good game.

Dispensing with my usual "the good, the bad, and the meh." format. let's do a rundown by detail.

Graphics:
It is a real mixed bag.
The character models out of battle look ridiculous out of battle and pretty nice in battle.
the backgrounds range to beautifully picturesque to "let's see how much brown we can get away with." The cutscenes are pretty epic.

*SPOILER ALERT*

The high points to me were the opening, the shinra building getting blown up and part of midgar callapsing onto a section of the slums.

*okay you can look now*

The gameplay:
No real suprises really, aside from it including an active time battle system.

Minigames:
They are actually pretty neat and they give you lots of incentive to do them.
(maybe a little too much incentive actually, seeing how one of them is the only place to get Omnislash.) My favorite being the chocobo farming and racing.

The story:
Well, pretty good, but i think FF VI and IV did it better tbh.

Most of the game is traveling around the world chasing the big bad while avoiding or fighting the other big bad (shrinra) and unraveling the past.
oh, and there's this really weird scene in wall-market...

The music:
Here's where the game REALLY shines, giving us some of the most memorable tunes in video games.
Just listen to One winged angel, Now THAT is what death sounds like!
(albeit kinda a Jaw's theme rip-off)
Cosmo Canyon's theme is amazing.
The shinra theme stands out to me to.

Music is subjective though so you may hate it.

The characters:
Cloud: For most of the game, he's a pretentious douchebag, but he lightens up a bit near the end.

Barret: He is Mr T. (I guess someone at square really liked the A-team.)

Tifa: Sweet, good-natured girl who isn't afraid to fist fight godzilla. (kinda awesome.)
oh, and she has a thing for cloud, for some reason. Speaking of that...

Aerith: The obligatory love interest.

Red XIII: He's a lion that talks. He's the most level headed.

Cid: A washed up, foul mouth old pilot/technician  (my favorite.)

Vincent: He's a shapeshifting vampire and he's kinda sad about it.
His past happens to be kinda messed up...he's even sadder about that.

Yuffie: Was the lolita ninja a trope before this girl?

Cait Sith: I really don't remember many details about this thing beside that he's a robot controlled by Reeve , a shinra employee.

I'd go over the antogonist but i don't want this review/retrospectic go be much longer.

So, if these character's sound cool to you then great!

If you like this game then check out, Legend of Dragoon, by the way.

If you are a collector with a lot of money to blow then get this.I found the only challenge to be the weapons and the final showdown with sephiroth. This was a great game but way to easy to play because i played Phantasy Star prior to this. On the other hand it had a slew of extra missions and hidden items and stuff to play for. Find the ribbons and sephiroth will be a lot easier to fight. I found two. The graphics were terrible, lets not lie ok... and to add insult to injury there was never a remake. In a way it makes me hate the game a bit more than i already do, even though it was a game i spent most my time with....I'll admit, the first time I ever played this game, I wasn't that into it. The main reason was that there, in my opinion, too many damn mini-games that were kinda hard (I STILL can't figure out how to get in line with the soldiers at the parade in I think Junon). Also, the music, while very emotional, is very very sad. So is the story... it got a little depressing to me.

But that was the first time I played it. Now I'm playing it again (this is my third time and I just beat the game about 6 months ago), and I'm finding the mini-games aren't quite as difficult; I'm not getting lost nearly as much, and I've gotta say the music's not quite so depressing anymore either. Also, I think it helps to play Crisis Core (PSP prequel to the game) or at least watch Advent Children (movie whose plot takes place about 2 years after the events of the PS game). The story is still quite sad, but it works. I think anyone who is into RPGs will definitely enjoy this one.This is definetly one of the greatest games ever made- but remember its gotten quite old now, and for diehard RPG fans this game is not that great.I can't believe how many gamers are hailing this game as the best final fantasy ever... i mean i know everyone has a different opinion and all but i mean come on, hasn't any of you played final fantasy 6? that game pretty much did everything this game did, only so much better. where do i begin?

characters: cloud-an emo whiny brat that annoyed me to know end. i wish there was a shut up spell in this game to make him stop crying. barret-how many black stereotypes can we fit into a single character? lame.

Tife-hey she has a killer body, not much personality but hey sex sells right?. Yuffie-what was here purpose again?. -aeris-hey someone with potential, too bad she died before we could start to care. cait sith- although i shouldn't have to explain why this character is lame, ill do it anyways....hes a cat, that rides on a stuffed animal robot....pause for laughter....a CAT that rides on a robotic stuffed animal!!!!!! then there is Vincent: basically there for five minutes of an already convoluted story line that is other than that piece of the story he is in is an intirely optional character, and can be put in the OF NO REAL IMPORTANCE folder. oh and i almost forgot Cid: yup his character was so awesome that i almost for got to mention him. and then finaly Red 13. another character that had potential, but when your surrounded by a bunch of numbskulls, in a convoluted story line, you stop caring about one character that has potential.

then there is the main bad guy sepheroth... many people say he is the best bad guy EVER!!!! "Sepheroth is so BAD TO THE BONE man he rulz!!!!" he was equally as much of a whiny emo brat like cloud (he wanted to destroy the world cause he missed mommy and a whole lot of other silly plot twists to make the storyline seem more advanced and mature). and i say this whoile heartedly....if you get defeated by a group of 1)an emo whiner 2) a woman who has no real point in life other than to be said emo's love object (and to sell units do to sex appeal), and 3) a CAT riding a robotic stuffed animal you are A) not BAD TO THE BONE and B) disqualified from the greatest villain of all time list. sorry.

story line:convoluted. a lot of unnessisary plot twists, although it was servicable and interesting at points. it would have helped to add characters with...character into the mix. also there was several completely unncessary scenes in it where i thought totally didn't add a single thing to the game (the cloud in the bath tub with the dude or the cross dressing game?) plus the ending reeked of don't know what to do wiht the story line so lets just say this happens.

gameplay: once again servicable but nothing revolutionary or even evolutionary. as a matter of fact, i think this game takes a step backwords instead of forwards. 5 had the job system. 2 had the unique leveling system. 6 had not only unique skills per character, but had awesome gameplay sequences such as the opera house, the stategic scens where you control 3 parties to more and block advancing troops, etc etc. what did 7 do? had cool summon animations that got old after the second view and could not be skipped....pass!!!!

graphics. they were horrible. yes even for that time. save for the stunning FMV sequences and the cool summon scenes (that got old way too quick) there was nothing pretty about this game. dull grey and bland environments abound. characters that made Lego characters look realistic, and just an overall boring and grimmy disgusting lifelesslook to the whole project.

sigh...where do you find best FF ever from this game? Its not even close to the top 3. was it fun? yes. did it make RPG's popular in the states? Yes (although i prefer some of the other games that came out on the PS at the time, such as wild arms, suikodin, and revelations persona, more entertaining). but the best? not even close. although i have to say it is better than 8.Final Fantasy VII is a good game to play. It is difficult at some points in the game. I started 3 times just to overcome the beginning of the game and to progress to the continuation of the story. The story line is good. I especially like the stealing of items from monsters, to see what all you can get,sometimes a weapon or just healing items. Sofar I,m just at the stage where I left the city, and roaming the world map. I'm trying to get more familiar with it. It will take me a long time to finish this game, since it has 3 discs, maybe I'll never finish it.Let me just break this game down step by step.

Storyline:

Very good and very easy to follow. I like how it separates between Shinra and Sephiroth before the first disk is even half way over. Very addicting and very fun to follow, and it still always gets me going without ever getting old.

Graphics:

10 years ago these graphics were considered "best of all time".

10 years later, we ask ourselves 'What the heck is this crap?'

One thing that never gets old is the fact that these poorly drawn 3D characters are unequally proportioned. Huge hands, twig arms? No mouths or noses, and yet they have huge hair? In 2007 all I can think of is to thank whoever came up with REAL 3D graphics.

Characters:

Each has their own special personality that I love. Barrett being my favorite. His attitude and swearing habits are possibly the funniest thing in the game. I usually keep him in my party just for that reason. Cloud is  stubborn, but not as funny. Tifa's got that hair thing going(like I just mentioned). Aeris is kind of boring and dies too early in the game to get to know her a lot more than you do. Red XII.....he's a dog? Cid, another character who can't control his mouth. Yuffie....some ninja girl that really serves no more meaning than a side quest. Vincent, amazing character who can morph into creatures. And Cait Sith....wait a minute, he's a toy? O.O;;;

Bosses:

Each have their own difficulty which I like.

Some require you to actually have trained or else face a brutal whipping. Final 3 bosses each have their own "twang" to them. Especially Sephiroth who is fun to go up against time and time again. I mean c'mon, who doesn't like a cool character with a wing for an arm? Music kind of gets to you though and his 5 minute Super Nova attack gets really frustrating when he does it about 10 times.

I kind of wish there were more than 2 All-American Creature bosses though

Magic:

The whole materia thing is fun, except for the fact that it ruins your stats.

Limit Breaks:

Easy to use, hard to obtain.

Playability:

Very-High

I've replayed this game time after time again without getting bored. I try new strategies and new characters each time and try to level up differently than I did before.I was in high school when this game came out. I saw the commercials. I was little confused about the title (what happened to Final Fantasies 4 through 6???), but the game looked cool. I wanted it.

I did not have a psx, though. However, my best friend did. A week after he bought it, he invited me over, and he showed me the game. I was hooked by the time Cloud and Barrett rushed off the train.

I had to have the game. It was like no other Final Fantasy. The characters and the environments were so vivid... so REAL.

I left my friend's house with a burning desire to own this game and the knowledge of what had happened to Final Fantasies 4 through 6 (or Final Fantasies 2, 3, and 5).

After a few months of saving I had enough money, and I bought the Playstation, a memory card, and Final Fantasy 7.

All in all, the game kept me riveted until the very end. The presentation was incredible. The story was intriguing. The game, for me, was an absolutely breath-taking experience.

Really, the only turn-offs for me were a handful of instances where the translation was confusing and some weird instances of homosexual innuendo (honestly, that was more comical than detracting).

By today's standards, the graphics are dated, but I still play through this game from time to time, and I thoroughly enjoy it every time.Final Fantasy VII - Circa 1997

GOOD:

- Considered a Classic PS1 RPG by many people

- Arguably Best story in a video game

- Epic story with fleshed out character

BAD:

- Graphics are really dated, 3D character models looked old even in 1997

- Game play may feel dated

IF IT FITS YOUR TASTE:

- Turn based RPG

- No voice-overs, so there is lots of reading

- Unless your looking for or like that retro look/feel of an RPG, it will feel dated to those raised on Final Fantasy X or Kingdom Hearts

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Final Fantasy VIII

- Final Fantasy IX

- Legend of Dragoon

- Chrono Cross

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- There is two versions of this game in one version the female playable character is called Aeris and in another it is called Aerith (note this is the same character)

- There is a version for the P.C. as well

- The CG movie Final Fantasy: Advent Children is a direct sequel to this game

- Note: all Final Fantasy are not related to one another, think of each Final Fantasy a it's own game not connect in any real/true way to another Final Fantasy, the only exception is Final Fantasy X-2 which is a sequel to Final Fantasy XThis game is OK but not near as good as FF9. FF9 has better graphics. The characters look like dolls. The cut scenes have good graphics. If you want this game get it for a cheap price or get FF9. If your a big Final Fantasy buy it but if not I don't think you should get it. I think you should buy FF9 instead.I had heard about the FF series but never paid too much attention to it mainly because I didn't have a PS, fast foward to a couple of years and I was trying to get some games for my PS2 library I fell upon FFX let me just say I was blown away and I think the FF bug bit me hard, I bought X-2 and told everyone I got it for my sis. Then talking with other FF Fantics they told me about VII. I haven't finished it yet that is why I gave it a 4 star review but it is awesome so far. Love the scene where Cloud has the Motorcycle. Despite the age of this game it really does stand the test of time and personally I agree with belledandy about doing a remake I'd probably be the first person to buy it too. For people considering buying this game, believe me when I say it is 'worth every penny you spend on it' If you are a fan of RPGs or of games on the whole, it's great, I really don't care if people call it the best game ever or not all I know is that since I have started playing it I can't put it down and my family and friends do feel neglected.I'm old enough to remember when RPGs weren't called RPGs. In those days the essence of the game was to move the players about a game board, fighting battles, collecting treasure, and finding clues. Origin's Ultima series was the grandparent of these games - immensely entertaining, but essentially two-dimensional. Among its heirs were the first games in the Final Fantasy line.

This was also a time when computer capabilities and capacity seemed to double every few months. Final Fantasy VII is the result of an inevitable synergy between technology and imagination. Players found themselves in a three-dimensional world where they could wander at will. They were playing with characters that were not only more animated and lifelike, but also had something that resembled personalities. In a very real sense, FFVII changed the gaming landscape, and RPGs reached a new level of credibility.

What is inside is the story of Cloud Strife; an ex-soldier turned mercenary who is drawn into the struggle between Avalanche, a revolutionary group, and Shinra, a rapacious company that is rapidly draining the resources of the planet. Starting out in the city Midgar the battle moves back and forth across the planet, as Cloud gathers team members, accessories and power. Everyone has a history, often mysterious, and an important role to play.

Eventually it becomes clear that the real enemy is a laboratory experiment gone horribly wrong. Shinra's effort to produce supermen has created Sephiroth, who has become one of the legendary villains of the gaming world. Physically beautiful, his mind has been ruined by his knowledge of what he is, and his goal has become the destruction of the world.

The plot is remarkably rich. Within the main story arc are many smaller stories that build the players understanding of the nature of each of the characters. There seem to be an unending number of weapons, powers, and monsters. More than enough material for many replays. The graphics are a bit primitive for our time, but were startling when this game first came out. As your imagination adapts to the imagery, the game becomes truly engaging on many levels. Final Fantasy VII is still one of the best of its genre, Whether you are a student of gaming or an aficionado, it belongs on your shelf.I have just recently finished playing FFVII for the first time.  Before playing it, I read a lot of comments from people claiming that this game is the best ever.  While I do believe it to be good, I can't fully agree.  I enjoyed FFVIII more (despite the fact that that opinion will likely discredit anything else I say in the eyes of all the rampant FF8 haters out there), I must admit.  But vastly, this was a great game.

The graphics weren't wonderful, but what can you expect from the earliest of the 3D Square games?  I had played 8 and 9 before this, so the graphics were admittedly a bit of a letdown, but the story was more than enough to make up for it.  I just found it quite funny how everyone's hands looked like large boxes.  ^_^

The music was good, and the character development was about as good as you can expect in a video game with more than four main characters.  Even in the best of games, some characters are left undeveloped, and it is no difference here.  Cloud, Tifa, and Barret get a good deal of character development, though other main characters are left less known.

There were a great deal of side quests and minigames, which I enjoyed immensely.  Snowboarding was my personal favorite.  :-)  You can spend hours completeing the sidequests alone, and most people end up detouring from the plot for vast amounts of time at the Gold Saucer.

The plot tended to be confusing at times, at least for the first time through.  However, it was intriguing, and Sephrioth is a refreshingly evil bad guy.  The final battle against him was pathetically easy (I killed him twice in a row without dying once at level 60 or so), but up until the point you actually fight him in his final form, he's a truely malevolent villain.

I would recommend this game for any Final Fantasy fan, or any fan of RPGs in general.  It's well worth the money and time.  Just because I said I didn't believe the theory that this is the greatest game ever invented does not in any way mean that I dislike it.  It's and excellent and entertaining game, and by no means should be passed up.When I played this it was magic. Journey back to the mid-life of the PlayStation. No, not the PlayStation 2, the original PlayStation. Yes, to the kids who were born just before the release of the PlayStation 2 and are now reviewing FFVII against games on the PS2 and Xbox, there really was a previous version of the PS2. It was a greyish top loading CD based (yes! CD!) system with no USB or iLink (FireWire/1394 for the PC crowd). After the end of Final Fantasy games on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System by Nintendo (yes, there really was a system called SNES that came before the Game Cube and for you old foagies among us, the N64 (Nintendo 64)) Final Fantasy finally got the 3D treatment for the first time. Or at least the characters did. The backgrounds were pre-rendered textures. That is the backgrounds weren't true 3D, they were rendered on a computer in 3D and then a snapshot of them at a certain angle was taken and slapped behind characters who were complete 3D rendered internally by the original PlayStation (remember, the system that came from Sony before the PS2). Only because the PlayStation couldn't render fully 3D extremely detailed environments by itself. Up until FFVII, which, by the way, was not the first Final Fantasy to be developed (there were other 2D (two-dimensional) offerings that only people who are long dead or are old and senile will remember, ask your great, great, great grandfather if he remembers playing Final Fantasy on his Nintin'do Entur-Tain'Mant Sih'stim back in the trenches during WWII), there was a real worry that Squaresoft (as Square-Enix was called back then) really had abandoned Final Fantasy games in favor of simple graphic demos on completely unknown systems like the N64. Not so. Those demos were actually distractions from the truth. That Square-Enix... errr... I mean, Squaresoft was readying its Final Fantasy XII demo called Final Fantasy VII on the equally unknown PlayStation (or as some Amish like to call it, the PSX). But at that time the network feature wasn't fully implemented which made for a lonely playing experience for some already lonely and pathetic super-nerds out there. But for us old timers it was a blast seeing Final Fantasy in 3D finally. However, we didn't get the demo but unfortunately we got the fully playable game. Which was great in and of itself. Because it showed what was possible with the Final Fantasy franchise which wouldn't be fully realized until late 2004 when all gamers finally proclaim in one voice "What? Another Final Fantasy game? I thought they discontinued it back when Roman caesars ruled the known reality/universe and mammoths roamed computer generated alien landscapes". Oh well, anything before Doom 3 is going to vanish from the collective memory of computer-gamedom anyway so don't play this because you won't be able to. It's just too alien an experience for today's DDR generation (oh, for those fetuses unfamiliar with DDR it's "Dance Dance Revolution" and it's what today's elderly play when their hips aren't healing fast enough).
BTW, stop being putzes and review the game fairly and in its own context of time. It looks really dumb when someone starts comparing it to something so far advanced it's not even fair. Perspective, my children. Get some.My favorite character is Sephiroth. He also makes an appearance in "kingdom Hearts" as the toughest boss in the game.(but i beat him!)
Final Fantasy VII is a brillant mind-blowing game.
Cloud is the main character of this game. He also makes an appearance in "Kingdom Hearts" as 3 or 4 bosses,he's easy.
The thing is,I couldn't even get past the mechanical scorpion!
The game is just way too hard for me. But I beat it.
The Sephiroth's are also Hard.
If you're in for some action,buy this.
Cloud is just such an amzig character,and so is Sephiroth.
sincerly,
  kennyAlthough the graphics aren't as good as one would expect, the characters are very well done.  Espeically Sephiroth, he seems to be the very essence of evil with the tricks he pulls of in the game.  Many of the mini games are great my only beef with the mini games is that they should of amde the mini-battle game available in the Golden Saucer, also why didn't they put in real voices in the end instead of a postscript?  This was probably to save money so Square wouldnt have to hire voice actors. Although the plot veers off track at times and a few of the program quirks are noticable this games still enjoyable and has a well written story.I must say, this game is great. I have written another review for this game, but i didn't feel it was completey correct. One thing was it is confusing and I cant say its for everyone, i say this because if you don't like FF and you haven't tried FF before don't start here. The game is fun,but not good graphics, and its confusing. Yu may not like this game,I warn you.The story and plot are interesting enough to keep a gamer entertained.  Gameplay is entertaining, but also challenging.
I cannot give the game five stars though.  I had already played the likes of FFX and Xenosaga prior to playing this game.  Their superior visuals and certainly the inclusion of voice-acting made the experience more enjoyable than FF7.  In other words, I would have enjoyed FF7 if I had experienced the game prior to playing more recent RPGs.FF7 was my first game to play from FF. Great graphics, very mundane story, and the mini games were very well worth it. This game should be added towards your FF collection.Final Fantasy 7, is one of those games that deals with a variety of aspects, instead of just focusing on one. It may seem to have just your simple everyday theme, of an average game. Once you get to actually playing the game, and beating it, you will understand what the whole concept of this game is about. It is more than just a battle of good and evil... it deals with what certain characters are going through at a time of crisis...
Story
  The story in FF7 was very well done; fit very nicely with the characters and surroundings. At first playing FF7, I didn't really think much of the story... until they started to developing the characters, and other minor aspects in to place. Once the game progressed, I could tell that I was starting to become entwined with this game; not only physically, but emotionally as well. One thing on the story I feel that they could have portrayed better, would have been how it all started... they never really went into much depth of how it all started.
10/10
Appearance
  At first glance at FF7, it doesn't really look like much. Basically looks like your "average" game, where you fight the bad guy, save the girl, and so on. The appearance of the game, also relies on the story. You have to understand what is going on, to get the whole meaning out of a certain scene. FF7, is one of those games that illustrates this property very well. At the time of the games release, which you can see here, it had some of the best graphics for any PSX game.
9/10
Characters
  The characters of FF7 were portrayed beautifully. Another reason why FF7 had a unique character design, is because the characters had been introduced with some background information; instead of the traditional way, were they just introduce a character and that's that. The way that characters developed, in the game, also had its strong points to back up many of the games likings. The way that I first saw the game, character wise, was that each really didn't care about each other. Once the story, and overall plot thickened, the characters attitudes towards each other became more appealing.
9/10
Music
  The music in the game was also another high end of the game. In my opinion, the music of the game, is what gave it that certain vibe, to make it a higher end game. I can't really say much about the music, though it was excellent. Overall Nobuo Uematsu did a very good at composing and producing the music of FF7.
9/10
Overall
  Final Fantasy 7, what more can I say... This is one excellent RPG that I would recommend to anyone who is remotely interested in gaming. The overall atmosphere that Final Fantasy 7 brings with it, is incredible. The overall mixture of what it represents, varies from person to person. Some people call this "The greatest game of all time." and I fully agree with this statement... Gaming just doesn't get any better than this.
9.5/10...The only, only, only, only, only, only, thing that I didn't like about Final Fantasy VII was the Materia system.  It takes an eternity to master all of the Materia.  Other than that, this IS the greatest game ever.The battle system could of been a lot better.  Number one: There's too many battles in the first place.  You take three steps you get in a battle.  You walk two steps to get somewhere and you end up in a battle.  You take one step, most likely you'll get in a battle.  Also, let me point out that once you're in a battle, you can't move around.  And plus summoning whatever it is you're trying to summon, like Thunder or something, you have to press eighty buttons just to summon it at once.  It's hard to do.  However, I think that the game was engaging and never let ya go.  It was entertaining, and it is undoubtedly worth the twenty bucks$...but...the battle system could of been a lot better, I'm sorry.The graphics are dated and the story's mediocre. The game is still good. Let's face it, people. There will never be a perfect RPG, but this one is good. You've all heard the story, yet here's what's great about it. Really good side quests, beliveable charecters, and beatiful movies. What's bad is the plot, the graphics, and the last boss. That's it. Goodbye.This game was a bit of a let down compared to its predacessor, Final Fantasy VI (US III).  It's still a good game, the second best one from the three released for PS (IX is the best of the PlayStation era).  The dark realism pioneered by this game made for a good story, and was much more well done than Final Fantasy VIII.  The addition of FMV for the first time was also a nice new element.  However, the gameplay and story still fall short of Final Fantasy VI and IX.  Worth a play, especially since the price is good now.Being a diehard Final Fantasy fan, I just had to get this game.  While I enjoyed it for the most part, I was disappointed by the "feel" of the game for lack of a better term.  It was not fantasy, it was more science fiction, and I really could have done without the awkward-looking polygon characters.  But the music is fantastic, the storyline is moderately interesting, and I think it just depends on what kind of gamer you are as to how much you like it.  Most newer gamers really love it, so if you are hesitant rent before you buy.  (They finally listened to us old-school gamers and did us right with Final Fantasy IX, though!  Marvelous!!)While being an excellent RPG, it is not up to the caliber of the originals, especially III(US)/VI.  There is definaltely lots of eye candy with the excellent graphics and awesome FMV. Where this game really lacks is in its replay value.  Its a onetimer.  I don't think I could bear to go though the whole thing again.  There were too many things that were too tedious in the game, namely the materia and chocobo development (which they drastically improve with IX).  Developing materia is an endless task that requires ungodly hours of play and the payoff, ie. master materia, just isn't worth it.  As for the Chocobo development while interesting at first it proved to be highly redundant as the game consistantly had a habit of birthing the wrong chocos and the races became more of a chore than a fun little sidequest.  Overall though a good game not to terribly difficult if your not interested in finding all the secrets, but only really worth playing once.This was a very addictive game, with lots of fun involved. When I first saw this game, I thought it would reek, because the fighting scenes aren't great. But this game is a lot more than just fighting, it's an awesome RPG, maybe one of the best. Some of the bad language is not needed, but it's easy to look past that.
 One thing that really bugged me was that in some parts it was just too hard, and you could walk around for hours and not figure out what you were supposed to do. But other than that it was great.  You can actually play arcade games inside this game, and there is even a place where you can shoot some hoops! There is a big mix inside this, you can drive a motorcycle, a chocobo :}, and some hover crafts. This game is really fun, and has I think about 50 hours of gameplay on three different discs, so go out and get yours today!
JesseIf you like rally cars get this game you will have fun.
It is more oriented to "European market" since here in America there isn't a huge rally fan party. Music it is very European and even the voices from the game very "English" accent.
The multiplayer isn't the best but it works just ok.Final Fantasy 7 is another excellent game made by Squaresoft. The same company that made Bushido Blade and Saga Frontier. It was the reason many  people bought the Playstations they own and defiantly the one of the best  during the year it came out.
As far as game play goes its excellent. The  controls are standard to RPGs. Combat basically is turn based (which I  highly prefer) with a little bar that goes up as it gets closer to your  turn. It has several very fun mini-games. Also there are many characters  who show an actually personality during the game. There are several  Vehicles you get as the game goes by to help you with your long trips  across the large world.
As far as plot it's well done. Plot being the  most important part to an RPG its good to see this game was strongest in  this area. Even though I won't reveal much on the plot I will tell you it  surprises you many times. Like most RPGs you don't get a lot of control  over the plot but that's fine it's still a good game. The plot doesn't  start to shake and get lost around the end it keeps you stuck form  beginning to finish.
The graphics are wonderful for their time. However  newer games like final fantasy 8, Parasite Eve, and Metal Gear Solid are  defiantly better. Often the characters seem a bit boxy in it. The  backgrounds almost always look beautiful though.
And finally as far as  length of time it can stay interesting is a long time. Final Fantasy 7 is  not a game you well beat in four or five games. You well defiantly have to  buy this game to beat it. It's well worth the price though.
Overall this  game is good. I am one of those self-important jerks who things ff3 was the  best though, but it did come close. It is defiantly worth playing.This is a classic that took fighting games to a new level. Although i am a Mortal Kombat fan, i admit that this game is actually cool to a certain point. The second one is alot better and the third one is pretty sweet. However, you must remember the humble beginings of Super hero/ Street fighter games. I like it.There is doubt about it, this was the game that showed the dreamcast could be a major competitor.  Being a big fan of the arcade version, I must say(for the billionth time), that this one surapasses the arcade version.  This is a very strategic fighting game,  And it is extremely deep gameplay.  Although my only compaint is that a button masher can beat the computer.  That is my compliant about all 3-d fighting game(as opposed to earlier, Street Fighter2, And Street fighter alpa, series games.), is that button mashing can get you over.  Although, in 3-d fighting games(like Tekken and, of course Soul Calibur), you cant pull off impressive,beautiful,combos with just button mashing.  For the most part, this game has alot of relay value, lots of of unlockable characters. The mssion mode, which adds even more to replay value, and the cool museum mode.  In my opinion, Time attack mode, is useless.  The survival mode, while great, is just too easy.  Another problem, the final Boss, Inferno.  He is pretty easy as well. But this is common in 3-d fighters.  But all in all this is a solid fighting game. It is just a bit too easy.  Even ultra hard mode, can be easily won by a competent Soul Calibur player.(although button mashers can win the first two stages).  This game is a must-have for Dreamcast owners.This game was good but not great. It was the very first MVC game and started the ball rolling. I had this game for the Dreamcast and played it the arcade for awhile. I thought it was pretty cool but just like XMen vs SF or Marvel vs SF., but the difference was that people could call out special assists characters. I give credit though for starting the idea of having 3 on 3 matches in MVC2.There are secret ways to unlock alternate versions of some of the characters, and even unlock Onslaught. You'll have to beat the game using certain techniques. In order to beat the game very easily, I personally found it best to use Ryu and Venom on Easy mode. Use them to beat the game multiple times and you'll be able to unlock all of the secret characters.

PROS:
1) The vibration feedback is extremely sensitive !!! You feel every bump and hit that you give your opponent.
2) There is an Easy mode, which strangely is not in MvC part 2. The Easy mode allows you to use Chun Li's lighting fast kicks.
3) There are a few super moves that are not in MvC part 2. Like Chun Li's has four supers in this game, while she has only three in part 2.

CONS:
1) There is a little slow-down with a few characters like War Machine and Strider. These characters move a lot faster in MvC part 2.
2) You can not select the same person twice. In MvC part 2, you are allowed to select the same person so you may have a team of three Akumas or whomever else.

Overall, it's a great game, and I urge you to buy it even if you already own MvC part 2. I own both games and love them equally.Until the Dreamcast came along no other system could handle the 2-D graphic processing power of a lot of 2-D games without a lot of loading.  Marvel VS Capcom is better on the Dreamcast than it was in the arcades, the control is easy, the graphics are sharp and crisp and bright, and the action is fast, so fast you might lose track of what your doing.  Though it was overshadowed by it's superior sequel, Marvel VS Capcom is a must own Dreamcast title on its own.  Also recommended is Marvel VS Capcom 2, Power Stone 1&2, Capcom VS SNK, Street Fighter Alpha 3, Dead or Alive 2, and Soul Calibur.This game is good, and very entertaining. I would give it five stars had there been more to it. Make sure to play with a friend to truly appreciate it.Good, the price should have been cheaper for how old this game is. Game was just the way I played it years ago!Capcom continues to make great fighting games, but this time out with Power Stone they create something special.  Power Stone was one of the first Dreamcast games out for the Dreamcast and helped make the system worth buying.  You can go anywhere, grab anything, and then beat the hell out of your opponent.  Its a great game, the only problem is that there is so much going on during the game you can lose your concentration at times, but thats the only flaw.  Otherwise, its a great game.This is one of the best fighting games that i have ever played (other than killer instinct), and i have to congratulate sega on it.  The graphics are amazing there  are plenty of characters to choose from, the levels are all varied and the two player mode has kept my friends and I busy for months.Smackdown:Just Bring It for the PS2 and Smackdown 1 and 2 for the PS1 are better. But it is nothing compared to WWF Raw for the XBOX. Raw for the XBOX is better than any of them. But if you haven't got a PS2, XBOX, or Gamecube yet this is a must get game. Gameplay is good it just takes a day or maybe a little more to get use to. If you want to save money rent it and smackdown 1 or 2 and see which one you would want to have the most.I personally own this game and can testify to how good it is. WWF attitude has eccellent character selection, and create a player mode....for its time. Unfortunately it is getting lost in the shadow of games like Smackdwon 2 with its quick executing of moves, unlike Attitude, and its enormous backstage area, unlike attitude. But on the good side it has some things other games don't, tag team Gauntlet and its huge hidden character selection that you are always trying to unlock. Great game, i would reccommend it to anyone who likes slowerpace games.Allright, I admit It When it comes to Gameplay This Game [loses] But When It Comes To Creating Wrestlers This Game Is Revolutionary. The Create-A-Wrestler Feature On This Game Is So Detailed That You Don't Just Pick The Face, You Pick The Eyes The Nose and The Mouth. You Also Can Put Lettering On Your Clothing, And Have A Wide Variety Of Masks, Face-Paint, And Apparel. With This Game You Could Create The L.O.D., And Even The Insane Clown Posse! The Create-A-Wrestler Mode Is So Detailed This Game Is Worth Playing Just For That. I Only Wish That Modern Wrestling Games With C.A.W. Mode Would Take a Page From This Game.Absolutely great game and it came in near perfect condition. Now some of you may be wondering why I took one star off and that is simply due to the product coming in a day late on one day shipping. As far as the game goes I'd highly recommend this game to survival horror fans and Resident Evil fans alike. Code Veronica and Code Veronica X are great changeling games within the series, and despite it lacking features that were present in Resident Evil 3 it still manages to be just as good if not better than 3, which is one of my personal favorites in the series.I really like this product. It has a good looking. And also it has a pretty good size. I really like this product.Resident Evil: Code Veronica.

This was originally released on the Dreamcast and originally intended to be the third of the Resident Evil series. However, that went to what we now know as the excellent Nemesis game for playstation.

This game was the first to be set in full 3D with no pre-rendered backgrounds. This game has held up very well and the graphics are more polished on the PS2 and gamecube versions.

It follows the story of Claire Redfield after the events of Resident Evil 2 and also reintroduces us to one of the heroes from the original game, Chris Redfield. It features new enemies, weapons and entirely new locations.

Something about the location didn't set right with me. Oh, I know...it's not Raccoon City. Well, I guess they couldn't help that after Nemesis, but still.

I say this is where Resident Evil started to go down hill. That doesn't mean this is a bad game, but this doesn't feel as fresh as the others before it, who still play great in 2009. I'd recommend this as it is better than Resident Evil Zero, 4 and much better than 5.[Baio Hazard] series have the most popularity in Japan. Especially Code Veronica is one of the most favorite thing. Because it game is  very real gurafic game used the spec of Dream Cast ability very well. Even if it is now time that there are more great spec hard, PS2, XBOX etc, you can play the came with the joy and the satisfication.
Vaio series is ,if I say to that simply, a active horror and action game. The main character of the game collect many weapons and curing items etc , you defeat the monsters that get to be stronger and storonger as story advance. The weapon is real too. For instance, the sound of the bullets, gravity feeling when the character have his gums at the ready...
When you use your bullets, there is fun that you consider the remaining bullets. And the sound is the horror sound. The monster are horror too.
Thank you for reading poor writing.Graphics wise this game is awesome. The control is easy to get used to and it is fun.
  The problems with this game begin early on. The main problem is the puzzles and bosses. There are many times when you will get stuck because you didn't move some block 8 hours ago, of course you can't go back so your only alternative is to start over. Very frustrating.
Graphics: 9/10
Sound: 7/10
Fun: 7/10
Control: 8/10This didn't have the best plot as the other res do, but was a hell of alot challanging. Your Claire Redfield looking for your brother Chris Redfield. You meet Steve Burnquist who eventually dies im sorry to say. I don't wanna spoil any more but anyway, Your main goal is to survive on the umbrella base owned by Miss Veronica. She is the master of all the ashfords which are a family of very wealthy people. Youll meet Alexia and Alfred. They are deadly so becareful. The graphics are the best part. Youll see a world of reality when you first see the first fmv. The Plot is good but not the best. And the handgun you get as your first weapon, lol sux. But you will not be dissapointed when you first turn the game on. You also will play as Chris Later in the game so have fun while the game lasts.Resident Evil: Code Veronica on the Dreamcast has the same mutant/zombie killing and gore everyone would expect from a Resident Evil game.  The graphics are considerably better in this latest installment of the series, and there are plently of new monsters to exterminate. As for the weapons, there isn't much new here...but at least it's kept relatively realistic with shotguns, pistols, and sub-machine guns, ect. The story is involved and although at some points predictable, it's executed well from start to finish.  Unfortunately, as in the other Resident Evil games, there is a lot of back tracking that must be done to complete the game...and having limited item space makes it all the more time consuming.  If you've played the previous Resident Evil games, you know what to expect.  There's also plently of fun secrets to unlock (like Battle Mode), and they add a considerable amount of replay value.  Resident Evil: Code Veronica is yet another great reason to own a Dreamcast.NBA Showtime was the newest incarnation of the very popular and ongoing NBA JAM series except now it went a little more high scale because it takes the NBA on NBC jingles, videos and of course the stills and visuals of the NBA on NBC TV programming.
Like all NBA JAMs, totally outrageous basketball from start to finish. You can expect anything and everything in this one from more out of this world dunks to being "On Fire" shooting and of course the newly added alley oops and free throws. Yes that's right, no more shoving your opponents all over the place because now they get 2 foul shots, each worth 3 points a piece (and even Shaq can hit these free throws!)
You can even create your own character and build that character to be the best as you take on the entire NBA in 2 on 2 mayhem. You also get to answer NBA trivia (just like on TV during games). Pretty cool.
I'd get this one because I personally think that this is NBA JAM at it's best. Very fun and also very cool to play with friends. Especially if you and a friend are good enough to pull off the triple alley oop pass for Team Fire. Again, check it out!Very great port of a very great game...it controlled for me fine! Using the D-Pad to move and B to run...it felt great...It is only lacking the Extreme battle mode...but everything else is there, including some bonus documents that aren't found in any of the other Resident Evil 2'sThis is one of the better N64 games if you have the 4meg expansion pack and it's good and creepy but some of the puzzles could have been a bit more easy to figure out but if you don't have an N64 get the GameCube remake as the Graphics are much better but still worth picking up and adding to your N64 collection :)I did not know 64 had a resident evil a friend of mines loan it to me oh boy!!!! this game was the first resident evil i ever played it was sweet and of course scary, there are flaws the controls ect.... but you just got to love this game it's real fun i think personally that this is the best resident evil everrr!!!! maybe it's the  genre whatever you need to tell you self this game rocks, i now have code veronica and outbreak so i know what i am saying, be sure to get you doctor advise before playing it's not a game for the weak at heart laterzzzzz gamers yyeeeeeeaaaaaahhhhhhhhh........Oh what fun for PlayStation to pick up rights to the classic Pac-Man game, like they did for Sonic the Hedgehog & several other formerly popular characters. Plus this is a great game...Happy Gaming!this game was good it actually has talking in it you don't have to read everything its pretty difficult in a way that its fun and its not too short there is a story-line to it the game works great no unable to read disc errors or anything like that

the only downfall is that if you have Pac-man world 2 for GAMECUBE or PS2 you going to be slightly disappointed because Pac-man world 2 is way better
but that's just my opinion

great buyTo be frank, this is what got me hooked on Pac-Man.  After I tried the original Mrs. Pac-Man, I wondered about the other version.  I'd heard good things about it, and that it was a very good game, but I wasn't so sure.  Then I tried my cousin's Game Boy version of it and I loved it too.  Pretty soon, I had forgot in favor of my now favorite video game series, Crash Bandicoot.  Then, we went game shopping in Toys R Us, and I saw it.  The 1st thing that popped into my mind was, "That's a Cool Looking Pac-Man."  Since mny dad had said no more Crash games for a bit, I asked him for this.  I loved Pac-Man World's graphics, game play, controls, worlds, and the challenge.  I was hooked.

The storyline is quite simple.  It's Pac-Man's 20th anniversary, and the Pac family is gearing up for it. They're preparing a big party, but suddenly, guess who shows up and kidnaps them?  That's right the Ghosts.  Their new boss, Toc-Man wants to replace the "Pac" in all the titles of Pac-Man's games with "Toc", thereby making himself the star of the series.  So, Pac-Man must rescue his family.

I recommend this game.The N64 port of the original NFL Blitz was such insane football game. I recall renting it several times back in Blitz's heyday. The players are so aggressive, and you literally beat the other team to death all the way through.

NFL Blitz 2000 appears to be pretty much the same game with better graphics, a play editor, a 4-person multiplayer, and a roster update. Like the original, you have a series of passing plays that you use to gain 30 yards in 4 plays. Also like the original, all conventional rules regarding football have been thrown out the window. It's a pretty wild ride.

Right now, in 2012, if you're collecting N64 games for nostalgia's sake or for whatever , I'd say one of the console's Blitz games is a good and necessary investment. They're definitely "core" N64 games.. whatever that means. However, it's not the kind of football game you can really sit down and enjoy too too much by yourself. It's a lot of fun to just knock the daylights out of your friends in Blitz. But alas, the AI just can't provide the kind of reaction that makes it entertaining.There are usually too many football video games that try to bring more special graphics displays, then the actual enjoyment of humor and feel of a actual enjoyable sports video game in the entire field of video games. The only acception, NFL Blitz, is a perfect exception to the rule, blending in some zany humor, and some incredible things you'd never expect to see in any real football game.
NFL Blitz 2000, the successful sequel to NFL Blitz, contains all of the componens of each team in the AFC and NFC. Also added to the mix are incredible zany stadiums that consist of playing football on a rooftop in the middle of a city, to the classic style of an traditional stadium. Also included are humorous codes that can change the game into a war zone. Codes like No Interceptions, changing the football into the size of an giant balloon, and even super field goals, can change the face of football time and time again. It is just too bad that can't happen in the real game, it would finally make sports fun.
While many people are now into the games for Nintendo's Gamecube, for those who still own the Nintendo 64, really need to own this sports game. It is just a first down to the ultimate gaming library. Only, if you still own the Nintendo 64 and didn't trade it in for a CD-ROM gaming system that takes longer to upload the game. NFL Blitz 2000 is that one kind of fantasy sports game, that continues to bring in the touchdowns easily.Dino Crisis is a great game -- lots of excitement, suspense, and action.  It doesn't fail there.  I beat it in four days (seven hours playing time), though, so definitely rent it first.
Some of the voice acting is weak,  but it's not the worst out there.  The story will keep you interested, as  will the battles with the enemy dinosaurs.  An added plus is the decisions  you must make at key points in the story, but even this (and the different  costumes) isn't enough to give the game the replay value it needs to make  it a 5-star game.If you loved Resident Evil 1 and 2 you will love Dino Crisis. Bult with the same operating engine as the RE games this classic sci-fi horror survival adventure keeps you excited while dodging raptors and scrounging for ammo.
Be careful not to bleed out!... Seriously though, not just a joke but an extremely annoying game mechanic.You can say this is resident evil with dinosaurs but it's a little more than that. Definitely scary. Puzzles are a little complex and tricky. You'll need a pen and paper to figure them out. Cutscenes are awesome. Monsters are quick here. You no longer have the comfort of running away from a slow moving zombie. Certainly challenging. Four stars overall because this game is short, but still worth it.

I did play Dino Crises 2 and it was okay. More of a shooter. Wished Capcom stayed with the survival horror element. They had a winner here.While some reviews hail this as a Resident Evil with Dinosaurs it's much more than that. The characters were great,and the story line is awesome. The only complaints I had for this game were the camera angles, some were very infuriating! The game play is solid, and this game is an instant classic. I would recommend picking this game up at the cheap price it is being sold for before it's too late! Fast shipper as well, and prompt service!This game isn't historically important(in the history of videogames), it's derivitive, and flawed, but I still had a lot of fun playing it. It's like a good b-movie. I tend not to like the graphics of playstation games, I preferred the snes back in the day, but here they work. The graphics lean towards realism but have a hint of anime influence, and I think they did a really great job on the dinosaur models, and most of the animations are pretty expressive, the limping of Regina when she's injured for example. The grainyness of the graphics enhance the b-movie feel. The voice acting isn't great but each character has a distinct personality. I also enjoyed the item mixing system, this allows you to customize the difficulty of the game, you can choose to use weak items or level+ items. There is also a decent amount of strategy in the game depending on the kind of weapon you use: raptors will be unfazed, stunned, or knocked down depending on the strength of the weapon; and there are also laser shields in some areas you can use to knock down raptors in order to run from them.
Flaws: the first and most serious flaw in the game is that the areas on the map aren't labeled, this is idiotic, it means that when you find clues with room specific information then, unless you have a great memory, you won't know where to look. Another problem is that sometimes important objects in the environment will blend in with the background and look unimportant, there is a key slot that would have taken me hours to find if I didn't get annoyed and look at a game walkthough. Sometimes the camera angles can hide important objects too. There is also a problem with damage detection and hit point arithmetic: a raptor won't take damage during some parts of it's animation, and if you get in some shot gun blasts then switch to the hand gun sometimes it won't count the damage done with the shotgun, both of these issues waste bullets. You can't group items how you want, sometimes you'll want to upgrade just one item but are forced to waste two others because of auto grouping. The select sound effect gets annoying considering how often you have to go to your inventory. The save system is slow and annoying. The pace of the game gets stalled from puzzles sometimes, you'll be running for your life but then have to stop and do a puzzle, and I never figured out the rules of the crane puzzle it just felt like trial and error.Around 1999 this game hit shelves on the coat tails of the success of the famed Resident Evil series. It even comes with a demo for Resident Evil 3 Nemesis! That said, this is not Resident Evil. It has similar controls and a story a little too silly to understand, but that is it.

The game is dependant on your ability to craft darts or find bullets to kill the enemys of the game. You will never have enough ammo to march through the compound and kill every enemy. You will need to run, close doors, operate lazer gates, and ect to get through this game.

There are puzzles as well, none that I can immediately remember except for the puzzle where you move cargo holds to make a path.

The enemies are excellent. This game has dinosaurs that look and feel like Jurrasic Park dinosaurs. The raptors are vicious and terrifying, the pterradactyles are a situational enemy but they are a thrilling challenge, the dome-headed dinosaurs show up and kick your can, and the Tyrannosaurus Rex is simply great. The enemys are so well used in the game that they are completely plausable. They take a great deal of damage and are fast and strong enough to rip you apart.

I give this game praise for going away from the zombie threat and replacing them with something exceedingly more violent and threatening. I love zombie games more than the next guy, but this was just good. The story was B-Movie, just like in Resident Evil, and the enemys were terrifying and threatening. The enviroments were dynamic and look really good on PS1. Very little did not work in the game, and if ther was something then I cannot remember it.Nope.... the title of my review IS NOT misleading, yes DC had a much better and more complete plot than either RE1 or RE3. RE2, not quiet as the scientific aura of the game sucks you in. Anyway, to get started, Regina and her fellow comrades are out on Ibis Island in search of a man by the name of Professor Kirk. Apparently he's got this new "Third Energy Experiment" which he is conducting.. I won't spoil as to what is behind this experiment as it'll ruin the gaming experience. The gameplay is similar to that of RE2/3 but instead of zombies, you face dinosaurs. You will NOT be dissapointed. I must say Shinji Mikami has good taste when it comes to creating a game with a very good storyline.

Gameplay:9/10(Exactly like RE except you have 3D graphics instead of 2D)
Story:8.5/10(It's very rare for a game to earn a good rating in this area)
Replay Value:8/10 Hey, you have three different endings and replaying it gives a chance to experience the different possbilities.
Suspense: 9/10 This game is easily a victor in this department. My hats off to Shinji for making this game more suspensful unlike its sucessor, DC2.I am basically buying and beating old playstation games I never got a chance to beat. I just finished this game today and it was pretty good. The controls are prettymuch identical to the early resident evil series and so is gameplay really. The story is pretty decent the only things I did not like about the game is it can become tedious running and back and fourth and some of the puzzles,  not hard,  are just kind of annoying. Good pickup if you can find it for under 10 bucks and looking to waste a saturday with a  6 pack. Game should take no more than 8 hours and thats really pushing itI remember back in 1999 when I received Dino Crisis as a Christmas present. This was my first exposure to a survival horror game. Believe it or not, I actually didn't bother with the Resident Evil series until six years later, in the summer of 2005, which is when I played Resident Evil 2 for the very first time.

Now, let's go back to 1999 for a moment. The world of 3D gaming was in full swing at that point in time. 1999 was a year when people were anxiously awaiting what the Playstation 2 would give us, while at the same time, we were appreciating what the original Playstation was offering. The original Playstation, as you may already know, is where the survival horror genre *really* became popular. Resident Evil, Silent Hill, and, the now underrated and unfortunately forgotten, Dino Crisis series.

Over time, people haven't treated the Dino Crisis series with *nearly* as much respect as the Resident Evil and Silent Hill series. It probably has something to do with Dino Crisis 3 being a really bad game with horrible camera angles, which meant, after that failed experiment hit the market, people weren't interested in any more Dino Crisis games. But, you know, even before Dino Crisis 3 was released, people didn't respect the Dino Crisis series as much as the other survival horror games. I really have no idea why. Dinosaurs can be *just* as cool as zombies. Believe me. Perhaps it has something to do with the animation? Even though killing dinosaurs is fun and addicting, Capcom made killing zombies slightly more interesting, thanks mainly to better animation from pointing and shooting your guns at a zombies head. It just looks and feels better in Resident Evil.  This in NO WAY should be reason to avoid Dino Crisis. This also doesn't mean Dino Crisis is flawed in the shooting department. Both Resident Evil and Dino Crisis offer tons of enjoyment. TONS of enjoyment. They are just separate beasts.

The original Dino Crisis is supposed to be about making the right decisions when it comes to either keeping your ammo and health in one place, or making the decision to bring the ammo and health with you. It's supposed to be about guessing whether or not the ammo or health will eventually be necessary as you progress through the game. However, on easy mode, none of this makes a difference. The game is *so* easy on easy mode, that you can literally get attacked by dinosaurs about five or six times before you even need one of those Med Pack M's (used to bring your health back to 100%). Seeing as how there aren't many dinosaurs in the game overall, you will only need to use one of these health packs maybe two or three times throughout the entire game. Dino Crisis is *that* easy!  This means you will only have to bring one or two Med Packs with you, and leave the rest behind.

To be fair, you can't just mindlessly shoot every dinosaur you arrive to, because you aren't given a whole lot of ammo. Certainly not as much ammo is given to you compared to how many health packs are available throughout the journey. Despite that, running out of bullets probably won't ever be a problem.  Just make certain you avoid some of the weaker dinosaurs in the early parts of the game. That way you will have enough bullets for the bigger and deadlier dinosaurs in the later parts of the game (which obviously require more bullets to kill).

You are given the ability to mix things together, to create dangerous darts. These darts are used to kill dinosaurs *very* quickly, sometimes in a single shot. The problem here is that, on easy mode, the game is so simple that mixing darts together isn't even important. You don't have to worry about dart-mixing on easy mode *at all*. You can simply shoot or avoid all the dinosaurs you come across on easy mode and not have to worry about dart-mixing EVER. That kind of ruins the whole "survival horror" aspect of the game.  You should have been required to use at least one or two of these darts.

People criticize Dino Crisis 2 for being just a mindless shooting game where you have to kill as many dinosaurs as possible to progress to the next area and collect bigger guns, but the honest truth is, the original is a MUCH easier game overall because you can simply run past all the dinosaurs that stand in your way. You can't do that in the second game. You have to stand up to them and shoot. So Dino Crisis 2 is a harder game, in my opinion. Oh sure, you are given an option to up the difficulty (in both Dino Crisis games) but the problem here is that the difficulty goes up SIGNIFICANTLY, making the game nearly impossible.

Another problem I have with the game is the amount of cutscenes. You CANNOT skip over them, so you are forced to watch almost every single one of them. Most of them are kind of boring because most of the cutscenes feature the main characters just talking to each other. Sometimes you will see a cool-looking dinosaur attacking something, though. But Capcom *really* should have given you an option to skip over the cutscenes like they did in the sequel, because most of them are flat-out boring. These conversations are supposed to create a spooky mood, but it doesn't work in my opinion.

I also have a problem with the INCREDIBLE amount of puzzles you come across. I am not kidding, there's over 25 puzzles in this game. Some of them are just a matter of typing in the correct series of numbers, or the correct words to access the next area. Some of the puzzles are more along the lines of finding the right way to complete them, such as the puzzle where you're pushing these Up, Down, Left and Right buttons to figure out how to sucessfully lift up and put down boxes using a giant crane. These are extremely hard puzzles to figure out by yourself unless you have a walkthrough.  Once you figure them out, the sequence is exactly the same the next time you play the game, though.  They're not random like in Resident Evil 3.

The game is also *very* heavy on searching for the correct key cards to gain access to the next part of the game, which can be annoying. Simply put, the game is dominated with puzzles and key cards, which are always required to access the next area.  A bit much, to say the least.

Despite the above problems, Dino Crisis is STILL a pretty fun game because the dinosaurs are animated beautifully and the graphics as a whole are really good for 1999 as well. The actual gameplay has some problems mentioned above, but there's also plenty of action to be found. Also, the game is pretty scary and intense, and the dinosaurs are simply wonderful looking and it's interesting the way they can attack you because they attack differently each time. Sometimes they will bite at your arm, other times they will pick you up from off the ground, and more.

Oh, and the music and sound effects are amazing.  Perhaps the best music and sound effects in a survival horror game ever. Instead of featuring melodic themes, you are treated to sound effects and musical notes that seem to play randomly, almost making it sound like improvised music, like something from a King Crimson record.  This means, if you listen to the music carefully, you can hear a bunch of unusual and creepy sound effects in the background.  You hear something different each time.  It's awesome, and works great.  It's not a typical soundtrack in any shape or form, even by survival horror standards.  It's so good.

Overall, even though Dino Crisis has almost zero replay value, and too much time is spent running around inside a facility doing one puzzle after another (and collecting one key card after another) the game is worth the experience.  It's not a classic, just a nice game.Having played a rather large number of survival horror titles in my time, I uncovered this title at the local flea market for 3 bucks. Having missed it back on the ps1 days (I was too busy with Silent Hill and Resident Evil I guess...) and being a die hard fan of Survival Horror, I picked it up. First and for most, many people have claimed this to be Rresident Evil with dinosaurs. Don't get me wrong, the similarities are hard to miss, but this really is something unique. Enimies are fast... the slow moving zombie has been replaced with the screeching, agile, adreniline fueled velociraptor... Which makes this game pretty difficult. No, think about it. RE controlls... only with zombies that move faster than you. Get the picture? While this does ramp the difficulty significantly, it isn't too over bearing (You just have to learn that blasting dinos isn't a good idea and running away is). Despite the more frentic combat, the game still moves at a sluggish pace that survival horror players have either come to love or hate. This is due in large part to a vast number of puzzles (which make little sense, as usual... colored key cards, statues, crate moving, etc.)and back tracking, in true RE fashion. However, this game offers some really chilling atmosphere, and despite the slow moving speed, it really does feel faster and more frentic than it's compitition, just because dinos are everywhere, you are always running and usually have an extremely low ammount of ammo at all times. Because nearly every area has key items, you have to explore. Because these same areas feature dinos, you have to use ammo to kill them. Because dinos are so fast and hard to kill you are always taking damage. You use healing items to cure wounds, so there for, unlike Resident Evil, it is pretty damn hard to hoard ammo and healers... all this results from fast moving enemies, and because you almost always just barely escape every situation by the seat of your pants, this gives dino crisis an exciting edge that most other horror games still haven't perfected. Add to this, "choose your own adventure" style twists in the plot where you call the shots as to which direction the story goes, the ability to combine items to create more powerful weapons, new types of ammo, and more potent healing items, and some pretty nifty graphics (they really aren't that bad, considering this game is almost 5 years old)and you have a winning title. As for the not-so-juicy parts, well... there are only about 4 types of enemies. And if you ever saw Jurassic Park or opened up a childrens Dinosaur book, you already know what they look like and how they will act. I'm not complaining, because each dino still scares the crap out of you when it pops out of a vent shaft or chases you down a corridor at high speed... but they lack that what-the-hell-is-it? factor of the mutants seen in RE and Silent Hill... Before you ever encounter them, you already know exactly what the enemies will look like, and how they will try and kill you. It just isn't as disturbing as the freekish encounters experienced in most other games of the genre. More so, the weapon selection is a little limited (3 weapons: Pistol, Shotgun, Grenade Gun), which offer a nice balance of speed, ammo availability and power... but it still leaves something to be desired, as pistol ammo is far too week to be useful (7 to 10 hits for a kill on a fast moving enemy... yeah right) and shotgun ammo is far to scarce to be wasted on anything but important circumstances (obviously grenades are saved exclusively for bosses if you actually want to beat the game). A good middle ground weapon would have been nice, just to lower frustration and make combat more stream-lined. In short, if you never liked Survival Horror, this isn't going to turn you into a fan. But if you like the corridor romping, the solving of mundane puzzles that pop out of no where and a few heart pounding marrathon runs while being chased by savage lizards, this is a game you should check out. Dated by today's standerds, but still decient enough to replay to see the 4 different endings. I give it a solid 85 out of 100.As my first forray into the world of survival horror, I was very curious to see how this game would hold up in this age of Playstation 2s and Halo.  I am pleased to say that this is a pretty fun game that has its strenghts and weaknesses.
You play as a secret agent named Regina.  Your mission is to infiltrate Ibis island to find a mysterious scientest named Dr. Kirk.  Upon landing on the island, it quickly becomes obvious that there is something very wrong with the island.  Then it becomes a quest to survive the evil reptillian menace.
Many, many people have complained about how dino crisis should be called puzzle crisis.  It is true that there is an unusual amount of puzzles in the game that you must solve to advance.  They range from simple (switch the batteries) to the moderatly difficult (move the crates with a crane) to the quite difficult (Rotate electronic chips to divert power).  There are also a mamoth amount of keys that you must get (Around 50).  There are also DDK locks that you have to dechiper to unlock doors (Hence the title of this review).  Most of these puzzles can be solved moderatly easily, if you really think about it.  Overall, I'd say that the game is a 50/50 mix of puzzles and dinosaur action.
As for the fighting part of the game, you get a total of three weapons, (Shotgun, handgun, and grenade gun) to exterminate raptors, pteradons, etc.  Some people might be turned off at the idea of only 3 weapons, but I don't find it a problem.  Combat is handled in the RE control scheme, which works pretty well.  As with a lot of survival horror games, you have to be carefull as to how you make your way through with ammo, which is not unlimited (Except in 1 case).  Fighting the dinosaurs can be difficult, but mastered.  Overall, I'd give the combat a B
There are some things to really like about Dino Crisis.  At certian points during the game, you have to make decisions aka "Choose your own adventure" style (Do you investigate the underground area, or go save a comrade?).  This adds a nice touch of replay value.  The graphics are pretty good (By PS1 standards).  The best part of the game however, is the T-rex.  The T-rex provides the most exciting elements in the game, and each encounter is a adrenaline charged rush.  Likewise, the 4 possible different endings are all very exciting and cool to play through, although there are a few things I am curious about.  For example, (Spoiler!!!) how can a T-rex swim 30 miles an hour in water?  That dosent make much sense. (End Spoiler)
The weak points of the game are mostly the puzzles.  There are a bit too many of them, and not enough dino battles.  Also, the devlopers throw puzzles at you when you least suspect it, and when you don't want them.  While racing to a heliport for example, a big race against time with tense dramatic music, the game tosses a box pushing puzzle that you have to solve to advance.  Another time, you have to solve 2 big puzzles in the span of 10 minnutes, where you have to power an elevator, then move cranes when they are only 3 minnutes apart.  Also, the unlockable mini-game you earn if you beat the game in under 5 hours, is dissapointing (At least to me).  The element of strategy is unwelcome, I just want to blast dinosaurs, and not worry about ammo, and Why isint the T-rex included?
overall, I think that Dino Crisis is a fun game, and a good start to the world of Survival horror.  I recomend picking it up if you find it for uner $$$ .
The good:
good graphics
good dino action
good story
Choose your own adventure style branches
The T-rex
4 cool endings
The not so good:
a bit too many puzzles
some really difficult puzzles
not enough dino action
mediocre mini game (See above)Let me give it to you really short and sweet! Did you like Resident Evil? Then you will like Dino Crisis; it's Resident Evil with dinosaurs. All Capcom did was change the characters and instead of shooting zombies you get to shoot and kill raptors and other dinosaurs that are trying to eat you.
I myself am a fan of Resident Evil so for the price this is a cool game. The same problems from RE come with Dino Crisis however.... lack of ammo!! Besides this it's a fun game, lots of puzzles to figure out and lots of shoot first ask questions later type of fun.I loved this game. I like the fact of killing smart and fast dinos alot more than killing stupid,retarded,slow and mindless zombies. It makes the game a little more challenging and this game has so many surprises going from raptors poping out from a corner to rip your face off all the way to a gient T-Rex busting through a window to bite you in half. I must say that this game is very gory but in a way still cannot compare to the goryness of RE games. I bet though that your wondering why I called this one of the best survival-horrors when I have only givin it 4 stars instead of a perfect 5. Well,the game seems to have to much puzzle solving and not enough killing dinos. Like there is about a dino in every hall and in a few rooms but after you kill them all your stuck with about 50 puzzles to open a new area and then you finally get the opportunity to kill a few more dinos and then the same proccess over and over. 50 puzzles,10 dinos,50 puzzles,10 dinos. But hey,look on the bright side. The graphics are very great,along with the sound and awesome FMV's and the game also has its great and fun moments like when the T-Rex comes out. In this game the T-Rex plays a simmilar role such as the Nemises does in RE3 because they are both constant enemys that keep showing up to ruin your day and they seem invincable. This annoys some because of the same boss showing up over and over but I think its great!!Plus if you have played RE3 and got annoyed by the Nemises showing up over and over,you may like this a little better because in here the T-Rex does not show up as near asmany times as the Nemises does. Aside from the T-Rex and the Raptors there are 3 other deadly dinos. One is the small and very very annoying Compys,who show up and theres about 20 of them you gota kill which wastes a great deal of your ammo. Anouther is the flying bird dinos(I don't know how to spell there names)and last but not the least,these very very strong and very big(bigger than a raptor anyways but way smaller than the T-Rex)wierd looking things that I do not have a clue to what there names are. Oh,now I would like to get to the ammo. Ammo is very very hard to find in this game,and there is not even that much to find...But I suggest to you to get and infit ammo cheat because you'll need it for this game. This games AI(artificial intellagence)is very good. The dinos are smart and if you are bleeding they can smell it all the way from a different hall and start stalking you. So over all this is a great horror-survival that has (somwhat little)but good action none the less. Buy it,you'll love it(exept if your not good at solving puzzles).
  bye now.This game is fun, don't get me wrong, but the problem is that this game offers nothing new to the style of game created by Capcom's own Resident Evil series.  Basically its the same story you're trapped on an island where dinosaur research has run amuck and your goal is the escape before getting devoured by the many dinosaurs you'll run accross while playing this game.  ALong the way you'll have to also solve some puzzles to be able to escape the island.  So basically if you enjoyed Resident Evil or any of its clones, Dino Crisis is a game for you.Makers of RE bring us : Dino Crisis  The graphics, musick, backgrounds do look pretty good! You play a redhead babe Regina and have to blast your way through all these blood thirsty dinos.. It gets hard at times, but after you play it a few times, you'll be all set.. This also has decent replay value as well, you get more costumes, and an infinite grenade launcher, so you can play again and blast all dinos Regina's other costumes are really cute as well, especially the cave-girl one, and she looks  yummy! What else can I say? DC is worthy of purchase although it's somewhat on the mediocre side. RE fans will like...These things work really great and can be combined for even longer cable lengths but be warned that the rubber shielding seems to slip around the plug head. Not a big deal, but could lead to eventual short.The good: great game library, the physical design of the machine is ace, graphics on the machine are generally quite nice, 4 player support, VGA output.
The bad: the controllers (even when brand new in box), it's kind of unreliable (sometimes I have to flip mine upside down with certain discs), it's loud (really loud), library is too small.Its a nifty little console, however, it makes a really menacing grinding noise whenever its loading a disk, I'm not sure if that's normal because I've never owned a Dreamcast before, and It also sounds like the internal cooling fans are having a hard time cooling it. I'm glad I made the purchase, however I am uncertain of the longevity of its life.

It arrived in a medium sized box, and it had like, 20 layers of saran wrap on it, which was kind of annoying to peel off, but I suppose it did its job in keeping the console safe, and the console itself is only a little bigger than the controller.

I highly recommend this console. I gave it a 4 because there's a few errors with my console, but only minor ones, like having to reset the internal clock EVERY TIME I turn it on, long loading times on games, the grinding noise, which I might add, my PS2 started making before it died, and the cooling fan. I feel like I should also add that it had a bit of trouble picking up the controller the first time I used it, but that was easily fixable.

Overall its a great console that I would recommend to people who want to experience some history in gaming without the loss of content from an N64 cartridge.I got this mainly to play Resident Evil CV, Carrier and a few other games so didn't use it as much as my other consoles. To be honest it just didn't have many games I was interested in. The console itself was heavy. When held it felt like a solid well designed piece of hardware. It has four controller ports for multiplayer which is a plus. I thought it was a competent game console though did have an issue with the controller. It seemed poorly designed or at least for the games I was playing. Other than that I thought it was a decent console.It's obviously not the best console, but since I've bought it I've had a ton of fun with it and consider it a great collectors console. The Sega Dreamcast has a lot of great games like Sonic Adventure, Sonic Adventure 2, Soul Caliber, Jet Grind Radio, Blue Stinger, and Carrier to name a few of my favorites. A Dreamcast is definitely worth picking up online or at your local store.I sold my dreamcast years ago and had regretted it ever since. I was pleased with this purchase and it has worked well so far.I really like this product. It has a good looking. And also it has a pretty good size. I really like this product.Overall this is a well done racing game, with very good graphics for its time period. My family has has enjoyed playing it a great deal. I personally think a steering wheel controller is almost a necessity for this game, but an x box type controller would probably work. The keyboard would be almost impossible, and not very fun. The "windows live" system detracts greatly, since you must log in and be online to play or save game progress. There was a mees up with my "Live" log in and the game would no longer accept my activation code and I had to rebuy the game if I wanted to play. There is no customer support at all. Dirt 2 suffers from this serious flaw as well. 4 1/2 star game 1 star Windows Live feature.After replaying both RE and RE2 from my childhood days; I couldn't wait to buy RE3 since I had missed that one growing up and was dying to try it out. Well... I've had the game for a few nights (7 hours gameplay) and have already beaten it. And I gotta say it was a fun ride, but I'm kind of disappointed. I'm a huge Resident Evil fan and I've been wanting to play this game for years.

Don't get me wrong the game was very entertaining and still withheld the ability to scare the hell out of me. I did enjoy it a lot, but it just doesn't justify itself as much of a sequel in my opinion.

Here's why.

First off, whats up with the difficulty modes? You're only given two choices; Hard or Easy. And their both screwed up. Why?

EASY MODE:
- The game starts you (Jill) off with an assault rifle and 3 F.Aid sprays.
- Enemies are way too easy to shrug off.
- Jill can take up to 6 bites from a zombie and still be in "Fine" condition.
- You have infinite ink ribbons.
- All of the weapons in the game are already unlocked and located in your storage crate.
- You have massive amounts of ammo for each gun already in the storage crate. (And I'm talking MASSIVE) For example: 250 Handgun rounds, 76 Shotgun shells, and 2 100% AR clips.
- Picking up ammo, Gun powder, and health items is pointless since you already have enough of each to last you to the end of the game.
- It is not much of a challenge.

Needless to say, I quickly changed from Easy to Hard mode after the first 10 minutes of playing. I usually don't like playing Hard mode on any game. But it didn't leave me much of a choice, and being a RE veteran I figured I could handle it. In other words, Easy mode was obviously designed for newbies and people that absolutely SUCK.

HARD MODE:
- You start with almost no ammo at all.
- Jill takes too much damage even from the smallest attacks.
- The new "dodging" feature is nearly impossible to use.
- Nemesis is way too strong and can kill you in one or two hits.
- Jill's inventory is very small. Unlike the first Resident Evil.
- Zombies respawn after you enter and exit a room. (True, considering the situation and environment does make sense. Like its impossible to kill every zombie in the city.)

Nonetheless I completed the game on Hard. Having died 3 or 4 times being annihilated by Nemesis. My only question is... why wasn't there a "Normal" or "Original" mode to play? I like to be challenged and enjoy the game at the same time. Playing on Hard was difficult and irritating. Especially when you have an 8 ft. monster on your tail most of the time.

Secondly, the story.

STORY:
To sum it all up the story is about Jill desperately trying to escape Raccoon city alive. And the first part of the story actually takes place like a day before the events of Resident Evil 2. The main conflict in the story is that Umbrella corp. has secretly dispatched a mutant tyrant called "Nemesis" into Raccoon city to seek out and destroy all the remaining S.T.A.R.S members. Namely Jill and Brad Vickers. I won't spoil the ending for anyone and I think most RE fans know what happens anyway.

What I didn't like about the story was that it was too confusing. Like, who is Nemesis?? Where did he come from?? I mean seriously whats his origin? Also, in RE2 Leon and Claire were looking for Chris, who we later discovered had traveled to Europe. But your telling me that Jill was in the city the whole time? And not once did Leon and Claire cross paths with her? Come on...

Another thing that doesn't make sense (keep in mind this is before RE2) is when Jill makes her way into the R.P.D. building only to find that half of the doors are boarded up/barricaded having no access. Which would contradict RE2's plot altogether. How would Leon and Claire get around the building? It doesn't make any sense. Why didn't they just have all of the doors Jill didn't need to go in locked? The story itself is pretty clustered. And it's really not even a story, its more like a side-story. It just seems that it was really rushed through and not a lot of thought was put into it.

Thirdly, the Nemesis.

NEMESIS:
Despite what I said earlier.. I thought that Nemesis was a great addition to the game. He definitely adds to the suspense and you never know when or where he's going to pop up and surprise you. However, it doesn't take long to get tired and frustrated with him. Mainly because there were a lot of areas in the city that I wanted to explore but couldn't because I was being pursued by Nemesis!!! And he shows up like 15 minutes apart from each appearance. So, exploring or not he'll always turn up sooner or later. And yes you can fend him off. But there's really no point since he's nearly impossible to kill, and your only wasting precious ammo and health trying to fight him.  By the way, some of you may remember Mr. X from RE2... well there's a big similarity between the two. Their both huge mutant zombies that stalk you throughout the game. So its quite obvious that Nemesis was a variation of Mr. X.

Pros:
RE3 did improve and add some great new features. Such as... The new "dodge" feature that really adds to the gameplay and helps a ton when your in combat. It took Capcom 3 games to finally add the 180 degree spin; which enables you to turn around quickly and run to avoid danger. I also liked the new "Gun powder" mixing feature, which enables you to create ammunition for your weapons. There is a lot of action and surprises in the game. Adding the interactive environmental objects (explosive barrels, etc.) was a nice feature and really helped in difficult situations. I did really like the outdoor environment in the game. I thought that was a nice break-away from the first two games. And finally, you don't need to press the action button to go up or down a flight of stairs.

Cons:
The graphics are the same as in RE and RE2 only with slight improvement on the character models and design. The pre-rendered environments don't look as good or dark as in RE2 but are still nice. The game itself is very short compared to the first two, and the only playable character is Jill. The camera angles can get annoying sometimes, especially when there is an enemy blocking your view. (This problem is in the first two games also.) It wasn't as scary, exciting, or suspenseful as RE and RE2. But still has moments that make you jump out of your seat. And lastly, it lacks a story.

Conclusion:
Bottom line, RE3:Nemesis is a good game. It's fun, scary, and entertaining. And no its not the best, and in my opinion its the weakest game in the series. And anyone who disagrees, obviously hasn't played the first two. But I will cut it some slack because Resident evil 3 had a lot to live up to. And it was because Resident Evil 2 really set a high standard for the series. Lets face it, Resident Evil 2 was a legendary game, and quite possibly the greatest sequel to any video game in history. I just think that RE3 could of been a better sequel. And it isn't as good as its predecessor.

Final Rating: 3.8/5As I have mentioned before in my past reviews, I did not and will not buy Resident Evil 2 or Resident Evil 3 for Gamecube, I just don't feel like they gave the fans what they could have given them. In the fact that Resident Evil Remake, for Gamecube, is far better than the original Resident Evil on PSX 1.

That out of the way, let's slip once again into the Survival Horror genre with Resident Evil 3. To be flat-out-honest I loved this game from begining to end. Never once did I find myself annoyed or slowed down with any problems while playing this game. The graphics and sound are not much more than Resident Evil 2 gave us BUT the game itself seems to flow seemlessly with RE 2 in every aspect.

I feel that Capcom hit the nail on the head with this game as they did with Resident Evil 2... heck thus far they have done a real bang up job making these games. In closing all I can tell you is that not trying Resident Evil 3 would be a mistake... as the game has everything in it that you would need for a heartpounding experience of fun.Resident Evil 3: Nemesis adds a nice touch to the Resident Evil formula. Not only do you have to deal with oncoming hordes of zombies, but now you have another worry...being chased by a Nemesis that will come after you no matter what you do to try and stop it. The addition of Nemesis made this game one of the most enjoyable, and my favorite of the Resident Evil\'s. The addition to now be able to walk up stairs without pressing a button really did help way back when, though wondering how that was ever not a feature in the games is a bit of a puzzlement. And on the subject of puzzles, the only flaw this game has is the \"water puzzle\" near the end of the game. Only because it is totally random. Meaning you can get lucky and solve it in 20 seconds, or it could take about 30 minutes to beat. But other than that, this is a great game that any Resident Evil fan should have in their collection. NnyCW for CapCity.Resident Evil 3 (1999). Capcom's third installment of their famous survival horror series.

When Capcom unleashed the original Resident Evil on the PSX back in the spring of 1996, they had no idea that it would become one of their most successful franchises to date. In fact, the series is still going strong to this day with new games on the PS2 and Gamecube. So Capcom heeded the fans' calls for a sequel, and released RE2 a couple years later. This game ended up being much greater than the original and won over many more gamers with its intense action and edgy suspense. After RE2 received much success, it wouldn't be long before another sequel would be in the works. Come the fall of 1999, RE3 would make its appearance.

The first thing most gamers will notice is that RE3 isn't intended to be a full blown sequel, but rather more of a side mission designed specifically for veterans of the first two games who thought they were two easy and wanted something more challenging. Plus it would buy time for the next real sequel, RE: Code Veronica. It's quite clear that Capcom had this group of fans in mind when designing the third game. There are two difficulty settings, and although RE3 isn't intended for newbees of the series, the easy mode does give you plenty of ammo to survive most of the game without any problems. Hard mode, on the other hand, is VERY tough and it teaches you to conserve ammo and health items until they are absolutely needed. And even though it was always important to save the game in the past, it's STRONGLY RECOMMENDED that you do it here, because it's that tough. The action is certainly more challenging, and it offers a plethora of small improvements over the other games.

The game's only real downfall comes from the fact that the story isn't anywhere near as compelling as the other games, as it just takes place in the same time frame as RE2. Well, specifically, the first half of the game starts a day before the events of RE2 and then the second half picks up several days after that game. Basically, the plot consists of Jill Valentine (star of the first game, and thankfully NOT played by the same voice actress!) trying to escape the streets of the T-Virus infested Raccoon City, all the while avoiding getting killed by the Nemesis (a crazed rocket wielding monster who's out to kill STARS members). There's nothing really surprising to the story, although Jill does encounter numerous mercenaries from Umbrella's evacuation fighting squad. Carlos is the only one Jill spends the most time with and he resembles sort of a love interest for her. Capcom doesn't really succeed as much with these two as say the relationship between Ada and Leon or the young girl Sherry's affection towards Claire, both in the previous game. Still, there are multiple paths and different endings to achieve, so plenty of replayability is here. Thankfully, any fallacy of the story is more than made up for by the gameplay.

If you're already a fan of the action from the first two RE games, then you'll love RE3 because there are a TON of additions to make the action segments more enjoyable. For instance, you can now dodge enemies attacks and utilize a quick turn so that running around is a lot easier to do. Plus, there are now interactive environmental items that you can fire at to cause damage to enemies. There's nothing more satisfying than being chased by a group of 8 zombies and then suddenly taking them all out by firing a single shot at an explosive. BANG! How cool is that? BTW, zombies can now run after you and chase you up stairs, so watch out! Another cool feature is the ability to create your own type of ammo by collecting and mixing different gunpowders. Even on hard mode, with the right combinations, you can end up with a LOT of heavy firepower.

As for the graphics, sound, and music, they are all nearly identical, so read my comments on them in my RE2 review to get the synopsis. Same with the music, although I will comment on the effectiveness of the music when the Nemesis arrives. It's quite scary when you leave the room that the Nemesis inhabits and then slow eerie music starts playing. You know that the Nemesis is nearby and will attack you at any time. This aspect was done very well.

There's only one playable character this time, but the game lasts at least 5-6 hours depending on how fast you go. Not to mention that items and monsters are randomly placed each time you play the game. RE3 does improve on the lack of challenging puzzles from the last game by featuring ones that have random outcomes each time. In fact, one puzzle toward the end of the game took nearly an hour to solve! The scare factor isn't quite as high as in RE2, but a new fear element is introduced and revolves almost entirely around the Nemesis when he's chasing you. The first time I played the game, I thought that killing the Nemesis was impossible, but now I know that even on hard mode you can still best him if you use your resources properly. After the game is done, there's still plenty of unlockable goodies to acquire, such as a timed battle mini game, different outfits, and numerous epilogues to explain the story further.

Overall, if you've mastered the first two games and hunger for more, then by all means pick up RE3. It's not perfect, but any older fan will find this game worthwhile. However, NEW FANS SHOULD START WITH THE OTHER GAMES FIRST BEFORE TACKLING ON THIS ONE, AS THEY MAY FIND RE3 TO BE FRUSTRATING. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.looks good but it has no batteries for me to test the buttons but the screen works for games when in the controllerThis product has worked out well along with the other dreamcast items i've recently purchased. Does what it says and works just fine for my dreamcast needs.I like the direction Sega took memory cards. At the time I really thought it was the future of controllers and memory cards. I might've been half right I guess. I would give this item a five star if it weren't for one thing that I really don't blame Sega for. It uses a lithium battery and for some reason mine always seemed to die before I even noticed. It's too bad Sega had some good ideas that were just harder to execute at the time.Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.

Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.

Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.

Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.

Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.

Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.

Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.

Nice Game Fun - Easy to Play - Overall Rating 3.9 Stars.This review is actually in reference to both the Dreamcast version and the Playstation version. For PS 1, RE 3 offers some of the best graphics available on the system, on DC the graphics are a sore disappointment as there were only minimal improvements, and while it does look better on the DC there are other enhancements that I would have implemented. This game had scared me when I rented it on the PS 1 so bad that I set it aside. It had got my heart racing, the whole running away and running for dear life... and me without a guidebook! Several years later I buy the DreamCast version just to complete the collection, and while waiting for the remake of RE 1 for my GCN I dust this game off and played through it, without a guidebook. This time I didn't get spooked at all. I was up pretty late that night I got scared anyway.
RE 3: Nemesis focuses more so on action than anything else, and there is (thankfully) more than enough ammo and herbs to go around. I think that this is probably the easiest of the Resident Evil games, not saying that you won't encounter the "You Died" screen on occasion, but less often than in other installments. This is also the shortest game in the series. The voice acting is dramatically better than previous games, as well as the in game cut scenes a little more fleshed out. However the story is not as fleshed out as it should have been. The game does have some advantages. It is the first game to allow you to ascend and descend stairs without using the action button, and it was the only game of the series to have a functional dodge button, which was great. I also enjoyed the gunpowder mixing. All in all this game is a lot of fun, short, but sweet, and although it is not the pinnacle of the series it is a worthy sequel. Plus the DreamCast version has more than enough extras to keep a person busy for a while. Lie RE 2 this game is being ported to GCN with minimal improvements. I only wish that Capcom would consider a total remake of this game as well with more story elements. If future installments of RE are to keep the tank like movement than I hope that they will reincorporate the dodge button.I am a Dreamcast holdout.  And I am proud of it.  The DC is...was the new Resident Evil Machine and every game in the series except for 1 was on it.  Which brings me to Resident Evil 3
This is the Survival Horror god.  RE3 is perhaps the most scary(insert shocking here) game of the series I have played yet.  Rather than face several boss charactors at obvious areas, Nemisis, the big, bad boss of this game will literally chase you throughout the game.  I still remember fondly the first time I saw his distorted face.  And I remember well his tenacious persuit of me causing my fingers to curl and my stomach to clench.  He is scary.
Added to Nemisis himself is the wonderful, useful dodge ability.  Tired of Zombies walking through your hail of fire to rip open your neck?  Charge them and push them back!  Tired of spiders wraping their legs around you and pumping you full of poison?  Jump aside.  It is so nice to actually roll out of the way of a enemies swinging claws.  And RE3 is the only game so far where you get to do this.
Finally, the gripes.  Although I have not played 1, RE3 is the shortest of the series I have played.  It is also much less epic than 2 or Veronica.  If it is lengh and amazing story you are looking for, go for RE code Veronica.  But is you want to be gripping the armchair seat and shivering from overdose excitement...This is the game for you.For anyone who has not played this stellar game series, this is what you call a "survival horror" game, which means you have a gun, you are alone and you have 1000s of zombies, dogs, ravens, monsters and mutants after you. The third installment of the Resident Evil game series actually takes place before the second game, so you are writing the future, playing as the lead heroine Jill (who survived the first game). You start out on the streets of Raccoon City, which has been ravaged by zombies, and you work your way to the Police Station and back into the city streets, trying to escape the town, all the while being stalked by a huge ugly killer which appears every once in a while to give the player a scare. Unlike the other two games, Jill is armed to the teeth right when you begin the game. She has a handgun, shotgun, magnum and an assault rifle, however unlike the original two games there are not waves of zombies to go through, instead there are only a few zombies, but the city streets are like a maze, so there is lots of ground to cover. There are only a few improvements made from the first two games. In Resident Evil 2, there were only 4 types of zombies, with this game there are dozens of zombies, such as fat zombies, beautiful zombies and so on. There is also a new system where you can make bullets for certain guns, but there is no chance you will ever run out of ammo. Another nice addition is that the player can dodge attacks without the player's help. The graphics and sound are still excellent, but several graphics were taken straight from Resident Evil 2.Just as the title of my review says:  It was a cool and original, sort of innovative idea that went underrated and underused.  But at the end of the day, all I needed was a gadget to save my Dreamcast game files, and it does that perfectly.The final instalment of the series on Playstation 1 doesn't disappoint. This is a classic game, an all time great. Although not as good as it's two prequals, Res Evil 3 makes up for it with improved graphics and an amazing mercenaries game. The hard mode also offers the most difficult of challenges ever seen on the PS One. If you are a fan of the series then you MUST own this. Some gamers may feel it's too easy iof they complete the game but try it on Hard Mode and then try the mercenaries and you get all the challenge you could ever ask for. The only reason why I've given 4 stars instead of 5 is the basic fact, Res Evil 1 and 2 are both better. But don't let that stop you buying it, this is a game that offers challenge, new enemies, harder puzzles and throws further into the series' evil, intricate plot. A classic game.OK this game was great.  The time line is very interesting in this game cause it takes place before and into the same time period of RE2.  The added feature of having the main boss chase you the entire game gives the game a interesting challege.  Just when you get all relaxed and are on a roll killing zombies, the music changes and your hear STARS!!!!!!!!!! So now you have a very ugly mean disgusting .....thing chasing from room to room.  Ne ways this game is great a definant must buy for any fan of the series.  And a great game for beginners.this game is excillent, the graphics are top notch, the game is chalinging but not to hard, it is just a great game, why did I only give it 4 stars? because the stupid voice acting, and why do the characters always move thair hands like that, do you know anyone who waves thair hands in slashing motions while they talk. If they would stop the hand movements and tried harder on the voices, the game would be perfict! Don't let the voices discurage you from buying this game, thair is so much to this game, let me talk about replay value, almost every puzzle in the game is random, so you can't just use the same solutions every time through the game. Let me talk about the nemesis, he's a 8ft(I think) tall monster that makes frankenstein look like a whimp, with a tenticle that spews poison at you, and equipped with a cannon. He sounds dangerious, you face him more than wonce in this adventure. After much time playing this game you could tell capcom put much time in this enemy, and he has the only voice in the game that is not annoing, as he only says "stars".In Res Evil two, you had two discs of stuff to get done, one playing as Leon, and the other as Claire. In this one, you are Jill Valentine, and you can't really pick anyone else.
Still, the weapons in this game improved a great deal! You get the standard pistol, shotgun etc... but there are improved bullets to be made, more powerful shotguns/pistols, M-16 rifles, and so much more! Also, each time you defeat Nemesis in the hard level, he gives you a peice to a gun you won't find in the game, or something cool like that. Then there is the Mercenaries game after you beat the actual game through the first time. Mercenaries is a little bit redundant, but if you keep at it, you can buy unlimited ammo, start with automatic weapons and more! This means any gun you find in the game never runs dry, and believe me, the first time through the hard level, you're going to WANT more ammo! Besides, as you obtain more powerful weapons, you can swat Nemesis like a pesky fly with the missile launcher, mow down Zombies with the Magnum, or mass-attack with the mini gun.
The story is pretty much "get outta Dodge", but the added affects of meeting various survivors here and there is kind of cool (although some of the survivors are not always the good guys). Also, each time you beat the game, you get another peice of what is happening with Leon, Claire, Barry, and more!
I'd suggest this one, I played it for a solid month, even after I beat it (and I'm still playing)!After having pretty bad luck with trilogies (see Twisted Metal 3), I was somewhat wary about renting Resident Evil 3.  I mean, how could they top a  classic like Resident Evil 2?  And that's where RE3 is hurt - it's  overshadowed by it's perfect predecessor and to do anything but copy it  would be less than perfection.  Given all this, Resident Evil 3 is still a  fun and very scary game.  The "fork-in-the-road" choices you have  to make are fun and give the game tons of longevity, as what choices you  make change the course of the game.  The puzzles can be frustrating and  drawn out.  Resident Evil 3 is basically Resident Evil 2 with none of the  bad points, but missing some of the good points.  The infinate ink  cartridge is definately welcome in my book.  Nemesis is an incredibly scary  character.  The thing that I was disappointed in was the lack of actual  story or any real characterization.  There was nothing really added to the  storyline that we didn't already know.  It was basically just solving  puzzles, fighting Nemesis 10,000 times and the big ending.  Given all this,  Resident Evil 3 is still a fun game that will keep you on the edge of your  seat and playing well into the morning hours.  Oh yeah, and the bonus game  is pretty fun!Dreamcast was a system I obtained In 2000 as a Christmas gift. I wanted a Ps2 and acted like any slightly spoiled child would when I opened it. Ten years later I still have one and enjoyed it very much. In no way am I saying that Ps2 didn't blow this console out of the water however ten years later I still play it. My first dreamcast I did absolutely no up keep to it but sadly a hazed friend of mine belly uped my first off of a counter by snagging the controller I lazily left out. Luckily I was able to replace it new for 75$.Over that ten years everything worked great on my first except for some reason Shenmue did not like to be read. I believe that meant the eye was going out or my dreamcast just did not like that particular disk(s).Some games on a disk sometimes didn't work on other dreamcasts. If that happens you need to repurchase the same game and usually the other disk would work. For some reasons some disks wouldn't work on some dreamcasts. This was/is uncommon but it happens.

My new one runs like new. Every game boots right up. The design IMO is attractive but dirties to easily. Fan power seems a little weak, but vacuuming the vents every few weeks or so really helps mine -- do at own risk. Its a little brick with a mediocre hardware system. Its easily just as loud as an xbox 360 when disks are read. Has a cd player option that is attractive when used alright sound put out. The system utilizes its 4 controller slots a lot of the time to the max. This is a fun party game system. Roommates really helped with The use of this system. Games such as: DOA,Wetrix,Le mans,Crazy taxi 1(2),Power stone 1(2),soul caliber,and many others were fun games to play with four people sometimes two right next to you.
  Other multiplayers still had home multi player but also went online. Games Like bomberman online,PsO,chu chu rocket were a hit online for a short period. Understand that this is the first system to Fully push online play -- ok people say saturn did and in fact yes their right but if anyone had played it they would probably agree with me that it was a joke. If you've never played online for dreamcast lets say Compared to Ps3, dreamcast would make you laugh. If you are younger and started next gen you may not understand why I even put up with it. Understand even when I played PsO online As slow as dial up was that I put up with it because this was a first. This was like Black ops of 2000. Online play is no longer supported through Sega on dreamcast. I believe if you are smart enough some people still play games like quake 3 online with their dreamcast,somehow.
  The Next thing that is neat about the dreamcast is their games that were individually selected for that system. Games such as D2,Project Justice,Samba de Amigo(WITH MIRACHAS),And Seaman(With Mic), give you huge bragging rights. Samba di Amigo,W/ Mirachas easily could fetch 150$.Some of these games are hard to find cheap or even at all. With the Accessories it gets even more expensive.
  Though the listed genres I put were Strong -- a lot side scrollers and 2d fighters--Rpg is where it really took a hit. Yes Skies of Arcadia was perfection,Shenmue rocked,and PsO was decent but thats about it...Sad.
  Fps were scarce too. Soldier of fortune is the only one I'd really recommend now that quake 3 isn't online.
  I love my dreamcast and play it regularly however A lot of the reason I enjoy it so much is because during my peak of gaming this is the system I had. If you missed the dreamcast growing up think twice and try it before you buy. Some of the happiest times were playing games like Nfl 2k1 when they came out or if a childhood friend came to visit. If you jump from next gen into dreamcast without experiencing it as when it was the NEW thing, your content with the console may not be as much as some reviewers will say. You kind of had to experience it IMO to fully enjoy it.I have a ps and a n64 thats all but my dc is great and i think you have to have this VMU because if you don't a lot of game you cant play i would say BUY THIS ITS GREAT!Maybe I just got a bad unit, but my batteries ran out after only a few hours of use. The memory unit runs on two type CR2032 batteries. Now, the problem with this is that these batteries are so expensive that replacing them costs about 3/8 the price of the VMU. Kinda expensive if you ask me. It is still a great idea however, and I recommend picking at least one up. I have a few games for Dreamcast and they would have been somewhat less enjoyable without the unit. I just hope your batteries last longer than mine did.The Dreamcast, when it came out, was the best system available. Even today, it can still hold its own against most consoles. The problem that doomed the Dreamcast was timing.

Usually, and we see it even today, consoles come out in groups - SNES/Genesis, PlayStation/N64, the PS2/Gamecube/XBox, PS3/Wii/XBox 360. The Dreamcast came between the PS1/N64 wave and the PS2/GC/XBox wave. Casual gamers had just shelled out money for the previous generation, and the more savvy ones were saving up for the next. Developers held off making Dreamcast games, so when the next generation did come out the Dreamcast had a lack of titles and less-advanced tech, dooming it.

That said, the Dreamcast is a good console. The controllers look weird but actually sit well in the hands, and I like that the DC has four ports off the shelf. The console is also fairly compact. Plus, for its lack of titles, it had some really good ones: the original Soul Calibur, Shenmue, Skies of Arcadia and Grandia II come to mind.There's no greater case for questioning "why" and "what if" than the Dreamcast. Everything you can say about this system has been said 100x over. Underrated, overlooked, before it's time, revolutionary. The list goes on and on. It all adds up to fun anyway.

I'm one of those that was completely sold on the Dreamcast. I'd never been more excited about a console and never have since. This was the console that finally would give us arcade quality games in our homes. I remember when I first saw 'Ready to Rumble' up and running. I just couldn't believe how good it looked and how fun it was to play. After looking at jagged and pixelated PS1 games for so long, it was a sight for sore eyes, literally. That game alone sold me on the system.

I was crushed when I heard that Sega was pulling the plug and abandoning the Dreamcast. The best console with the best games was on the way out and it didn't seem right. It didn't make sense. It was immensely popular, had one of the best launches in console history and it's sports games were flourishing even without EA's support. It still stings the memory like your favorite team losing the championship.

But we still have our memories and even better, many of us still have our Dreamcasts. A true testament to a console and games of the past is how well they hold up today. Many times, your memory serves you better than reality. I've experienced that many times with old games I used to like. But many of these are still alot of fun. Maybe not as much as they were at first but they can still provide a good time.

Sega was in it's prime when they made games for the Dreamcast. Sonic, Crazy Taxi, House of the Dead 2, Sega Bass and Marine Fishing, Daytona USA, and Virtua Tennis are still among the best and most playable today. Other honorable mentions go to Soul Calibur, Street Fighter Alpha 3, Power Stone 2, Marvel vs Capcom 2, Jet Grind Radio, 18 Wheeler, and Silent Scope. Unfortunately, the dreamcast will never come back and Sega may never again be the giant that they once were, but you can still find  the console, the games, VMU's, fishing controller's, and light gun's to experience some of the best that gaming has to offer. Get it while the gettin's good.This is a very good gaming system. It was released by in September of 1999. I think that Sega made their point out when they installed the 56K modem with this. It's a really nice feature to have and now every modern-day system comes with a ethernet or dial-up modem port. I didn't rate this a perfect because I think that the graphics aren't that good. I really don't like how the controllers are. But I think that atleast they have disks because since NES-N64 Nintendo has been using cartridges and Sega made cartridges in the beginning but they changed to disks before the Nintendo (and atleast their disks are normal). They have some good games like Sonic which are really good games to own. Here are the technical specs of the Dreamcast.

CPU: 128-bit Hitachi SH-4 RISC processor (200MHz 360 MIPS)

Graphics: NEC CLX2 processor

RAM: 16MB, 8MB Video RAM, 2MB Sound RAM

Colors: 16.7 million

Polygons: 3 million per second

Game Media: 1.2GB GD-ROM, 12x access speed

Resolution: 640x480 pixels

Sound: Yamaha 64 channel

Operating System: Custom Windows CE with DirectX support

Modem: 56Kbps (US/JP NTSC), 33.3Kbps (PAL)

It's a really good system but I don't think you should buy it now because it's WAY to old!charges my micro just fine. take it with me most the time. worth getting if you have a microMy friend and I played this years ago. It is the most fun I have ever had on the PC. The multiplayer rocks, and the graphics were great for back then.

It's funny that I would review this now, because my computer won't even run a game this old. But, if you have an older PC, and it runs games, you need this.Sega's detractors still ask  "why own a Dreamcast?They also state they're a waste of money because they failed the 128 bit system wars." I respond by saying they are pretty inexpensive if you can find them used. I recently rebought a Sega Dreamcast, 4 controllers, 5 games and it only cost me 50$. I think that's a great deal. The Dreamcast's graphics still impress even today. Not to mention that the Dreamcast's best games are also in my opinion some of the best of all time. The Dreamcast's library consists of adventure games like Sonic Adventure and Sonic Adventure 2 plus fighting games like Soul Calibur and Virtua Fighter 4. If you get tired of playing games for a while the Dreamcast will also play audio cds and features an internet connection.  So even though the Dreamcast didn't survive the battle of the other 128 bit systems that came after it they set the bar for them and are still worth owning in my opinion.The Dreamcast was (is) a good system.  t's only fault was arriving when it did--either too late or too early. It has a sleek and quasi-'futuristic' look. The controller is a bit blocky, and not as smooth as the Playstation. The memory cards are huge and 'chunky' and don't do that great of a job, at least not compared to other systems. But the most important element to a game system are the games. I've never been a huge fan of Sega games or their systems. But one thing I noticed about the Dreamcast is that the sports games they have are generally some of the better games in their genre and are quite fun. And Crazy Taxi plays well on the Dreamcast. I wouldn't recommend the Dreamcast as your first or only system (but since it is discontinued, I guess I don't have to worry about that), but if you come across one used for a reasonable deal, it does make a nice system to add to the one you already have in place.It does what it's supposed to do, charge a GBA Micro. Quality of materials is low and the plug to the GBA Micro is a tight fit but for $4 I wouldn't complain too much. If you need a new charger for your GBA Micro then this will get the job done.Well i now have an xbox, which is grreat!! But i did have a DC and i have to say it was one of my fave consoles ever.  great graphics, it looks like Ps2 and it looks almost a little better than gamecube.  when i heard a while back that sega was ditching dreamcast, i was so mad, i wondered y because it was such a great console.  So, i think if you are someone out there who wants to play games that areen't up to date, but great, this is the system.  I think that someday, sega should jump back into the marketing and make dreamcast 2, with more power than ps2 or xbox, and come with dvd and net support.  It woulld be great!!Sony's latest console certainly has the best selection of games, chief among them, Pro Evolution Soccer and The Getaway. It is, however, a tad too expensive, considering its specs.
The DC has an interesting game library. Neither the best (PS2), nor the worst.
What it does offer is awesome quality for a low price tag. The PS2 is capable of displaying 6 million polygons, the same as the DC. The PS2 has 4MB of VRAM, while the Dreamcast has 8MB of VRAM.
But the most astounding thing is that, to this day, the DC thorougly dominates two key gaming genres - racing and fighting.
Metropolis Street Racing has, overall, better graphics than GT3, and handles really well. Arcade racers abound, such as the great Tokyo Xtreme Racer series. To top it off, the DC boasts the awesome F355, possibly the most realistic car sim ever.
The DC also has what has been recognized as the best fighting game of all time - the wonderfully deep Soul Calibur. Add to this countless 2D fighting games, and other fare such as Dead or Alive 2 and Virtua Fighter 3tb, and you have happy fighting game fans.
Other areas that are very well covered by the DC are sports, with the famed Sega Sports series, and "offbeat" games, such as Rez, Space Channel 5 and the 3D version of Q*Bert. There are also a number of kids games, probably more so than on the PS2.
The only bad thing about the DC are a few 2nd gen games such as Test Drive 6 and Rainbow Six which hold the system back somewhat. And, needless to be said, it cannot playback your Citizen Kane DVD.
Although I'd take the PS2's controller over the DC's, the Dreamcast's joypad is certainly better than the X-Box's or that of the N64.
Another plus is you will find every one of the games for less than half their original price, given that the DC has been discontinued.
If you really want a PS2, XBox or GC, I suggest waiting until they drop their price which they most likely will. I do not think those consoles are worth that much.
In short, the Dreamcast's price to quality ratio cannot be beaten.Game consoles are expensive these days.  I'm not getting an XBox because it's only available in bundles at $500.  GameCube is nice, but there arn't very many good games out for it.  I have a PlayStation2 and Game Boy Advance, and recently bought a Dreamcast.  Why do I always leave the things I really want to buy for last?
I have so many friends that think a system with fun titles can actually "die."  "You still play that?  They stopped making them and don't make games for it anymore!  It's dead, it's old! It came out in 1999!" Uh, that really wasn't that long ago.  I still want an Atari 2600, but I got a Pocket PC and a few more games at the top of my list!
The Dreamcast is possibly the best console I've had the pleasure of wasting my eye-sight on.  It's the first system to launch with a successful online plan (*** for Genesis, it tried yet nobody I know knows they really DID try).  That, and it has some of the best games available for it: Soul Reaver, MDK2, Jet Grind Radio, Crazy Taxi, many more to name.  In addition, it has the most confortable controller I've ever used (good for big or small hands).  And now that Sega is out of the hardware industry and trying to sell-out their whole Dreamcast inventory, the price for the Dreamcast has now dropped to $50.  It goes neck-to-neck with more recent consoles and it's dirt-cheap.
I honestly don't see any reason what-so-ever why you shouldn't buy Sega's final legacy.  For any holiday, if you have a nephew, son, friend, or whoever that wants to play games for at least 20 hours a week and doesn't have one yet, at $50 this is more than a real-steal.  Most of the games now are cheap (around the $10 range) and the system costs only 5 times that price.
In short, buy the Dreamcast.  Sega only stopped making them because of financial problems despite the Dreamcast's success.  A lot of good games to play on it, and gives the options of internet play or surfing the web, or even hooking the thing up to your monitor for crisper graphics.  Outstanding.  I'd give it a 5, but only if it had a built-in toaster.I got my Dreamcast last Christmas and I like it alot.  It's a great system!  But there are two big problems:  The controls for it are very awkward, and they stopped production!  No more games!  They really could have done something with this system, but once again, Sega made a booboo.The following is the review of the SYSTEM, not the games that can be played on it. First off, at first I thought that the controller would be pretty clunky due to its size. But in actuality, it is fairly light and fits nicely in one's hand. Bigger-handed people might have a problem, though. What I REALLY like about the controller is that ALL buttons are accessible without having to remove your hand from ANYTHING. Unlike that stupid N64 system that has buttons in the most unreachable places in the heat of battle. I didn't see the point behind the little video-game screen on the controller, though. To me, it just weighs it down more and--let's face it--why bother playing pixally games when you can play your Dreamcast? One thing that I like about Playstation is that the memory cards are inserted into the system, not the controller. Wise move. But unfortunately, Sega didn't have the foresight to do that. As for the system, it is slightly smaller than a Sony Playstation. Graphics run really well on this system and I'm surprised at what it can do. There is one thing that I have to say about the 4 Megs of Video RAM on Playstation /PS2 versus the 8 Megs of Video RAM on Dreamcast. When I watch a Final Fantasy FMV on Playstation, I know that they are pushing that system TO THE ABSOLUTE LIMIT. If Dreamcast has TWICE the Video RAM, then I expect to see something TWICE as impressive, something that is so graphically intense that it threatens to overheat the system. But sadly, I haven't seen any Dreamcast game do that. In fact, some of these games look like the regular Playstation could handle them. Overall, this is a nicely designed system, but now that Sega is putting an end to its Dreamcast games, it's not worth buying. I'd buy a Playstation 2--Metal Gear 2 is around the corner (and FF X) or maybe a Nintendo Dolphin.Although the inside of the case was missing most of the plastic pieces that hold the disk in place the game plays great. I have no loading or game play issues at all. This was a great purchase and I am happy to add this game to my Tekken collection.I play games, simply put.  If I want to play Gran Turismo2, Metal Gear Solid or Final Fantasy 7, 8, or 9, I need a PSX.  If I want to play Phantasy Star4, I need a Sega Genesis.  But in this case, with the Dreamcast consoles' production be halted and for a rather low price (not necessarily through Amazon), it's quite a deal.
The games that I have look very good.  I have found that the Sega products tend to keep a more 'cartoony' style while the PS2 is desperately trying to get the characters to look more human.  (Well, humanoid.  Only Square can do it best...)  I don't have many and that brings up the next case.
Sega honestly doesn't have any games that I really want to play.  Even when first coming out over a year ago, there were few games that really caught my eye.  Carrier was one of them because I thought the premise was better than the Resident Evil games (which I don't care for...).  I needed a fighter and Streetfighter fulfills that.  I have DOA2 on the way, but the game that made me buy the DC was Phantasy Star On-Line.
This review is about the Dreamcast and it IS a worthy machine no matter what anybody says about it.  The problem (and why it receives 4 stars) is that the majority of games are absolute junk.  (I have specific tastes and Sega just doesn't quite cater...  BUT, that's not a bad deal!)How do you know if the Dreamcast is the system for you? Forget about graphics, think about the games!  If you love arcade style games, this is the system for you.  Some of the best ports include Soul Calibur, Gauntlet Legends, Street Fighter 3: 3rd Strike, Marvel Vs. Capcom, Daytona USA: Network Edition, Mortal Kombat Gold, House Of The Dead 2, and the list goes on.  If you prefer role playing games and more adventure oriented titles (even though Dreamcast does have a few good ones), you may want to get Playstation 2 as it offers more variety in that catagory.  The only bad feature about the Dreamcast is the controllers...they break down often, especially if you constantly play Capcom's 2D fighters. Plus, I think it was a bad idea to make the VMU slots on the controllers rather than on the system itself, it just seems awkward.  As for the durability issue, I can't really speak for that yet.  What I can tell you is that I have had mine for well over a year now, it has endured extensive play, and has yet to display any noticable overheating/overuse problems.  I haven't heard of any problems with the Dreamcast breaking down as of yet...but be careful.  Give the vents on the right side of the Dreamcast plently of room to blow the hot air out.  If you want to get a Dreamcast, hurry up, it probably won't be around much longer thanks to the Playstation 2.  Fortunately, the Dreamcast has already established a solid library of games.  Get it now while you are still able to find games and accessories easily.I really enjoyed the Dirt series of racing games.  I actually started with the Colin McRae Rally 3 demo, which came before Dirt.  Dirt 1 was a nice game with lots of different types of races in varied environments, including Pike's Peak.  You got to race semi trucks, cargo trucks, trophy trucks, SUVs, and rally cars in Dirt 1.  The advancement was like a pyramid, unlocking levels as you go. I have a Toyota Tundra, so it is easy to like a game that has a Toyota Tundra to race in it.  Dirt 2 made it more radical with nice music and an attitude.  The races were longer and became more X-Games like. I enjoyed the Baja races very much. But, I did not like the Microsoft Live part of it where it takes a long time to get initiated, patched, etc before you can actually play for the first time. Once you get past this, things get better. The choice of vehicles were more limited, but the liveries try to make up for it. Dirt 3 keeps the same attitude and cool music, but also has the same Microsoft Live treatment: sign in, patch , etc. before the first game time.  Once you get past this, it does get better.  At first, I could not get used to the way the game downshifts automatically in the turns to automatically slow you down.  I moved the difficulty up a notch to intermediate and it was much better and more of what I was expecting.  I use a gamepad to play on the PC.  I was pleasantly surprised that my 9800 GTX 512 MB plays this game rather well at 1680x1050 (no AA).  The races are largely rally with some interesting winter-time truck races in the snow.  The cars are not quite as varied as I would like.  I also hate that there is in-game content that can be purchased additionally from Microsoft Live.  Come on! I already paid for the game and there are some levels that are pay to play, so you won't really finish the season until you pony up more funds to Microsoft Live.  Many of the cars are available to purchase too.  That is cheesy and not appreciated.  You don't need to purchase these to advance though.  The gymkhana events are interesting and challenging. Being a hoonigan takes practice, patience, and many banged up cars. The Ken Block videos on youtube really inspired me to practice as I had no idea what gymkhana was before Dirt 3.  I do miss the Baja style of offroading from Dirt 2.  Dirt 3 seems to have a focus on other things, but it is still fun overall. For $12, I got my money's worth.  Maybe I will get Dirt Showdown for some demolition derby excitement, or maybe not.Sorry Tekken fans, good graphics, cool characters, but lacking personality. Yes, I know it's stupid to take off one star for personalities, but hey, I paid for this game!!! If you liked Tekken 2 without the personalities too, I recommend buying this with Tekken 2.THIS GAME WAS GREAT, AS A MATTER OF FACT, BUT IT'S NOT ALL THAT PEOPLE SAY IT IS. THERE'S SOME NEW CHARACTERS ADDED TO THE GAME AND THE CHARACTERS FROM THE FIRST 2 GAMES HAVE ALL GOTTEN OLDER. THE FIGHTS ARE GREAT, THE NEW AND INVENTIVE MODES [SUCH AS THE ONE WHERE YOU FIGHT OFF GANGS AND STUFF LIKE THAT ON DIFFERENT STAGES] ARE GOOD, AND THE CHARACTERS ARE ALL FUN AND EASY TO USE. TEKKEN FANS WILL LOVE THIS ONE A LOT.Let me start off by saying, I am not "FanBoy"! I am not into the name brand war. I am a gamer, I play on any console and format (PC/Arcade/DC/PS/PS2) Reasons to buy a DC:
1)The console is the cheapest out of the consoles coming out.
2)The games and the graphics for them pretty much hold there own against the PS2. Awesome sports lineup and online play! Being realistic of course, eventually the PS2 may surpass the DC due to the advanced harware on the PS2, its now up to the game makers to utilize the full potential of the PS2, which is probably around a  year away. The PS2 still needs to mature before you see its true power.
3)The console is available now. While you wait for the PS2/Xbox/Gamecube. You can have and play a DC now, with plenty of great games! Plus by waiting the price of these other consoles will come down and there will be plenty of titles for them by then. Good things comes to those who wait(Cheaper price, more games, more availability!)
4)Online play. The best opponent is a human opponent.
Bottom line: It's cheap (for the console and performance it provides, it can't be beat), Plenty of titles to choose from (3rd generation titles coming out soon), It's available now and it's got online play.
Grab your DC today...! Gamer247 is OUT! GAME ON!Tekken 3 is awesome! New characters, new moves, new combos and some favorites as well. Along with some great extra features aside from the tournament like Force Mode, Survival and Volleyball?! Tekken 3 delivers!
This is a really good game for all gamers and it hits the essence that is 3-D fighting games. Plus new characters and new fighting styles are also pretty cool. The drawback is that the old "button mashing" is still a viable means of winning the fights and for a lot of the characters, some of thier combos that's all you have to do (best example: Eddy Gordo). For those of you advanced gamers, try the new and improved King, Jin and Law.
Definately check out TEKKEN 3. This one is definitely worth it for the PSone. If you're looking for other great fighting games on the PSone, check out the STREET FIGHTER ALPHA series, SOUL BLADE and DEAD OR ALIVE 2.This is one kick-[butt] game. I mean it. Literally. About two dozen characters, multiple difficulty levels, a couple of interesting games, this is one super-cool game.
The graphics are great and the fight moves flow so prettily it's almost scary. The characters are all interesting to use, at the very least, and there's something for everyone from an enormous, slow-moving bear to the lightning-quick but tiny Xiou Yu.
My only beef is with the Tekken Ball stage and the side-stepping. Tekken Ball is just silly. It does nothing for your characters, it's decidedly simple, it's . . . well, it's a little kid's game stuck in the middle of a rather bloody 3D fighter. It just doesn't seem to fit with everything else.
The side-stepping is almost ludicrously difficult. You have to tap the controller so lightly that taking a few simple steps to the side becomes impossible. I realize that, logistically, it would be difficult to find another way, but it does hamper your stride, particularly in the Tekken Force stage.
A great game, though.This ismy favorite fighting game on my P.S. and I should say that I still don'get bored with it...The graphics are obviously developed,, you could notice the polygons are smaller and the characters are more realistic...Although there are bizarre characters (such as Gon, the little dinosaur, they add the fun to this game even though I don't use them that much..Namco should create more of this stuff.I read a lot of reviews on this game before buying it, so maybe my expectations were a little high.  The graphics here are really not that different in quality from X-Men MA2 (actually, the backgrounds in X-Men are more dynamic).  The fighting is good here though, and the characters really do have distinct fighting styles that give you quite the challenge in Arcade mode. They also tend to defend themselves more here, so your every kick or punch won't connect like you want it to.  If you're buying for a good fighting game, then you shouldn't be disappointed...but if you're buying expecting graphics that are unlike anything you've ever seen before, you may be.Gauntlet Legends is a mindless hack, slash, burn, and blast game. There is nothing wrong with aimlessly wandering about creepy dungeons, mashing buttons, and mowing down bad guys. It's especially fun with companions. This game is a classic. I enjoy the graphics, the audio effects, the characters, the different environments, and seemingly endless procession of monsters in this game. Finding all the switches one needs to progress is sometimes tiresome. The game's storyline is linear, but that's okay. Sometimes a formulaic approach is just what the doctor ordered!Graphics: 9/10
Very impressive, with smooth animations and the requisite cool lightning effects.
Sound: 8/10
While there's no Street Fighter-style semi-incoherent yells, the sound effects are better than what you see in most fighters and the music isn't too annoying either.
Gameplay: 7/10
If you're new to fighting games, this is a good place to start, with lots of easy combo strings and flashy moves, with enough depth to justify spending a week or two learning the ins and outs of your favorite character. Unfortunately, hardcore fans will be disappointed with the emphasis on uncounterable pokes, double reversals and insane float combos.
Replay: 9/10
Lots of new (actually interesting) modes, and plenty of characters for you to trash a friend with. It's just plain fun playing as a giant bear or breakdancing fighter.
Overall: 8/10 (not an average)
If you're reading this review, you probably don't care about the finer gameplay aspects. Go ahead and buy it, even novices can have lots of fun. If you're experienced with 3D fighters, you'll probably want to buy a Dreamcast instead.This game is great! The handling is cool and so is the combat and magic combat. I, personally, would reccomend this game for Legend lovers , ya' know, magic. The buttons are great and so are the graphics.The Tekken catagory of games (3D style) came about on its own and took the gaming world by storm. Tekken 3 is just another step up the ladder of success for the Tekken series. This game has "Tekken Ball" where you play volleyball, it has numerous hidden characters, and it will definitely keep you playing for hours so you can see your move over and over again in instant replay.The Dreamcast is the next generation of gaming machine from Sega, most well known for its Sonic the Hedgehog games. With Dreamcast, Sega moves beyond Sonic into a heavily graphic and net-savvy arcade machine.
Probably the biggest difference between the Dreamcast and its competitors is the built in 56k modem. This allows Dreamcast owners to log on to the net, surf the web, and fight other opponents head to head. This opens up a HUGE opportunity for finding playmates that until now was restricted to computer gamers. The web surfing ability only sweetens the deal, although like WebTV, there is no ability to download.
It's not for free - ... - but for a household that is currently not on the Internet, the price gets both the web access and unlimited gameplay. You also need to buy a keyboard if you wish to do any web work.
Like the Sony Playstation, the Dreamcast will play audio CDs. Unlike the Playstation 2, it will not play DVDs, however. Also, while the Playstation 2 can play all Playstation games (since both are CD based) the Sega Dreamcast cannot play older Sega games.
Popular Sega games tend to be arcade or fighting games - Rayman 2, Street Fighter Alpha 3. The incredibly high polygon draw rate (three million polygons per second) means that these games fly, giving great gameplay.
Even though this is equipped with a 12x CD player, it's still slower than a cartridge system like the N64. On the up-side, CDs are cheaper than cartridges, and can hold a lot more information on them, leading to more involved games.
I'm personally not a huge Dreamcast fan - the types of games available on it aren't ones that tend to appeal to me - but my arcade and fighting loving friends enjoy it a great deal.
Specifications: CPU: 128-bit RISC Clock Speed: 200 MHz  Sound: CD quality, 64 voices Connector: standard 3-plug video/audio connector 1600 x 1200 resolutionThe case doesn't hold disc one in place but the game discs and manual are in good conditionI can  say the game was great and it surprised me that it was still functioning.  I was usually expecting it to not work.  though I'll have to wait and see.  One of the good but unknown games in the 90's.  Can recommend this to people with old systems though I can't offer any guarantees since who is using an old Playstation nowadays?Great game but really hard and takes a long time to develop your skills, etc.  Very innovative for its time though... creating you own armor, weapons, and even food.  Also many characters to choose from given your decisions.  It's a bit old now so given everything not many people would play it through.  I believe I got to the last boss once but got demolished so gave up and deleted my file.  That was some years ago.  I have the PS2 version too.  Think I had the same issue but actually did better.  For some reason the last bosses in these games just pulverize you.  Give Rotney anotha chance! LOL... Jackie the Joke Man from Howard Stern referenceThe storyline, characters and music are all incredibly good. I could play this for hours and not get bored.

Only con is: Some stuff is so frickin cryptic!! You have to look at a guide or you will miss many things while playing. I spend half my time playing with my head in a guide.All gamers have had the experence of playing a game (be it an RPG or anything else) they felt had its fair share of flaws, but has that one, very bright redeeming quality that makes all those flaws take a backseat to that one positive.

Star Ocean: The Second Story is one of those games. Star Ocean's appeal (at least in my case) can be summed up in a single word: combat. Star Ocean's combat system is probably the game's most notable feature. The real-time battle system, which has a very arcade-like feel to it, is a very enjoyable change than your standard-fair RPG battles. It's just so much fun to destory enemies with a volley a special attacks from you and your allies. The skill system is also a plus as well, increasing characters stats and developing other usefull, non combat skills.

Unfortunately, the rest of Star Ocean's elements aren't quite up to par when compared to the hustle and bustle of battle. Graphically, Star Ocean is behind the times no matter where you turn (excluding the FMV's). Actually, the game's graphic engine is very simular to a 1998 Square-Enix title, the often overlooked and bashed-to-no-end SaGa Frontier (one of my favorites - yes, I'm serious). The fact the game uses most of the same graphical tricks empolyed by a game two years earlier underlines this fact.

Storywise, Star Ocean 2 suffers another, slightly smaller blow. While the story is generally good, it seems to drag on until you reach the second disc, where you do more exploring and fighting and the story begins to unfold more. Characters aren't as developed as well in Star Ocean compared to other RPG's such as Final Fantasy or Wild Arms, though the game tries to make a very obvious effort to do this though the use of the private actions system (where you enter a location and your characters split up and you can talk to them on a one-on-one basis to discover more about them - this affects the outcome of the game in various ways). I will give the developers credit for trying though.

Musically, Star Ocean 2 has it's ups and downs. Some of the tunes can be quite annoying, but no game score is without it's duds. However, when you hear the battle themes played near the end of the game for the final bosses, which mainly are of heavy rock/metal variety, all is foregiven. Soundwise, the characters various soundbites during battle are cute at first, but become annoying really quickly (how many times can you remember Claude saying "that's around 50 points" after a battle - too many to admit when I'm sober).

Even with it's flaws, Star Ocean: The Second Story is an above average RPG. While I'm not sure if I would call it a "classic",  I would recommend it to anyone who had the time or showed interest in the genre.I've been an RPG fan for longer than I can remember, and have played around 70 of em.
Despite the VERY harsh review of gamecritics.com, I thought this game was actually really good. A nice breath of fresh air from the very linear, but nonetheless brilliant, Final Fantasy games.
Hell, sure the story wasn't to die for,but beautiful music,acool combat system, and tons of replay value make this one that every fan of the genre should own.I must say....this game is alot of fun, there are many many many endings so replay value is great. I thought I would hate it, I don't care much for the "sprite" type char but after playing for just a hour , making your own weapons, food, goods........ well it was a blast. I would buy this !...... an well I have :)Virtua Fighter may have a hard time competing with games such as DOA2, or tekken tag, but believe me this was what paved the way for those games.  All though it lacks where the others seem to excell with story modes and hidden characters, virtua fighter makes up with character variety and a great display of styles (drunken style, mantis, sumo, etc.).  I was shocked at how fun this game was even after playing more modern games.  Even with new games on the market, I think i'll be playing this one for a while.  The teacher of fighting games.Words cannot describe.
You need to feel this game. Cringe as Pai floors  you with a double toe kick and mercilessly follows up with a jumping knee  to the midriff. Cheer as you fight back with a spinning kick as you get up.  You nimbly dodge the next kick and fire off a triple punch combo, finishing  with a powerful backhanded punch to win the round. Watch it on the replay,  go on. Laugh at Shun's ever-increasing drunkenness. Memorise that sweep  kick movement. Gape as you realise fighting games do not have to feature  blazing blue fireballs and Super Hyper Alpha Combo Breaking Double EX  Special Level Three moves. Instead, here's a fighting game where the  feature is actual fighting! Crikey!
So, why only 4?
Get to about...  oooh... Level 7. Battle relentlessly until both characters are nearing the  end of their tether. Open your attack and watch as the opposition stops it  and fires one back, knocking you out. Pound your controller through the  floor while screaming "BUT-I-PUSHED-PUNCH-THEN!"
Recover from  that bout of frustration, continue the game and realise that when you're  not frustrated you're having incredible fun. Read this review. Go to the  store. Buy the game. Do it now.The dream cast equipment was much better than the knockoff's.  There are fewer problems and it lasts foever. I purchased a madcats version in 1996 and it died after only about a year; The Dreamcast F.Controler I purchased new in 1998 is still going strong today(2008)This game brought back memories. I was excited to get it but it took awhile about a week and a half but it still came and when it did I was so happy. It was worth it. And the disc was in good condition. Great for nostalgic people.This is a must own for Dreamcast owners and Sonic fans.  There are six major campaigns, Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Big the Cat, and Gamma.  Each have their own style of gameplay and each campaign adds to the story.  When you beat al six campaigns, a seventh and final campaign allows you to play as Super Sonic to conclude the story.

Now there are a few flaws.  Sometimes the control in the game is pretty bad and the camera doesn't always go where you want it to go.  My least favorite campaign is Big the Cat's because it focuses less on action and focuses on fishing.

But it's still a fun game and I can still play it.I never actually played the original Sonic Adventure until I was in my mid-late teens (this game came out when I was 4 or 5). I grew up on SADX on the gamecube. The game is almost exactly the same, but the different, more vivid textures make it seem like a more realistic environment while also giving it a sense of older fashion-sense days.

I'll skip the gameplay, since it's a very basic Sonic gameplay most people in the mid-Sonic times are familiar with. I'll definitely say it's a bit more slippery and bouncy, though, but that was probably to show off the major advantage the DreamCast had over the original PlayStation or the N64.

The chao garden in this game is easily the most far removed from the other 3 versions (in SA2, SA2B, and SADX). The others have cute, snuggly, happy chao whose lives are only miserable if your torture them. You know what you're doing with your chao and accidents are rare. Not the case in this game. Every chao is born as an adult, and will very quickly kill itself if you don't do something soon. Their movements, like most of the game, are very bouncy. I dare say this is the bounciest thing in any major-release game I've ever seen, actually. It's almost a high-speed environment with a visible difficulty level.

If you're looking for a sentimental chao garden, this better be your last buy. If you're only after something nostalgic or want to collect for SEGA fandom's sake, this is one you absolutely can't leave out.

I'd also like to mention that when this game was released, I didn't know about it until about 5 years later. At the time, I was into Sonic and Pokemon (when Kanto was the only region!), for the most part, and I thought the new art style was as cool as anything could ever be. I didn't recognize Knuckles, though, because I'd only ever seen AoStH and a few Sonic products in stores (such as spaghetti-os). I literally thought Knuckles was an enhanced-awesomeness version of Tails, since he was the only character on the can with Sonic. I completely forgot about that feeling until this showed up in the mail after I ordered it. The box art is just so much more detailed than any other Sonic game's that I can think of (regarding resolution, at least).

If you're just breezing through and want a Sonic game with good music or gameplay, this won't be close to the bottom of your list, but not the top, either. This is a casual buy if you're not collecting or shooting for nostalgia.I really like this product. It has a good looking. And also it has a pretty good size. I really like this product.Sonic Adventure is one of the most important game's of Sonic's History, being it was the first 3D Sonic the Hedgehog game.
If you recall on the Sega Saturn-
Sonic Xtreme was going to be 3D, but it was cancelled.
Sonic 3D Blast was isometric, not 3D.
Sonic R was 3D, but it was a racing game.
Sonic World was 3D, but it was in Sonic Jam.
Sonic Jame was a compilation of the first 4 sonic games.

The Hub Worlds are amazing, and so are the action fields.
It makes sense to have you complete all the stories to get the final story, It was repeated for a few until 2006. We ALL know what happened then.
The Camera, oh God the camera, I have SO MANY TIMES due to the camera, which is why my rating is 4 stars.Sonic Adventure took Sonic to an amazing level, and it only took 5 years of Sega Saturn failures. The first thing Sonic does is fight a monster called "Chaos". After beating Chaos, the camera turns to Eggman, who ominously tells himself Sonic has no idea what he is up against... the perfect start to the game. Sonic then goes off to rescue Tails from a plane crash, starting the first level. Emerald Coast was a beautifully rendered beach with a beautiful theme and HUGE 3D ACTION! The camera shifts and Sonic is suddenly is being chased by a giant whale! After that he runs through a tight cave... and then finally rescues Tails! After a happy reunion, Eggman steals Tail's Chaos Emerald and feeds it to... Chaos the monster. Congratulations, you can now play as Tails! He can fly! His levels involve racing Sonic and Eggman (Just like in Sonic R!), and thats about it. The best thing about Tails was his inspirational motto, "I want to fly high! I shall belive in myself!". After Tails was Knuckles, who had a totally different story. One night he was rethinking his life and why exactly he was guarding the Master Emerald, when somebody steals the Master Emerald (way to go, Knucklehead)! His levels are composed of finding the Master Emerald pieces. Knuckles wasn't nearly as good as Tails. After Knuckles comes Amy Rose, Sonic's... girlfriend. Her levels focused on platforming while avoiding a robot that decided to chase her. Maybe a 6 year old girl would find Amy and her obnoxious theme song cool, but the teenage nerd reviewing this finds Amy very annoying. Big was next... and Sega really should avoided this idea while in development. Big is a BIG "cat", according to the Sonic Team. He really looked like a purple bunny-bear creature. His whole goal was to find his pet frog... Froggy (what a clever name!). It was torture watching him trudge to some water in the great zones Sonic and Tails enjoyed. Twinkle Park was only a lake for Big. For Sonic it was a bumper car ride followed by intense platforming, and the great voices Sonic, Tails, Amy, E-102 Gamma, and Eggman made Big even worse. In a dumb voice Big constantly shouts "FROGGY! WHERE ARE YA!?".
Thankfully, E102 Gamma came after Big. Gamma is a robot built by Eggman. You start out following Eggman's orders: Shoot the Sonic Doll, shoot the real Sonic, lock Amy in jail. After that, Gamma accidently sees Eggman torturing his robot rival, Beta, and starts to wonder if he should follow Eggman's rules. Like every good robot character, Gamma decides to betray Eggman and find his true destiny...
*SPOILER!*

Which, sadly, is exploding while sad music plays.

*SPOILER OVER*

Update (10/19/12): Okay, I am almost through with this game and feel like throwing up. The end is VERY intense, with the Final Egg level almost being impossible due to collision issues and camera bugs, but I got through it. Chaos actually succeeds and completely destroys the city (which is only made worse by the Dreamcast / Gamecube's jaw-dropping graphics), and the song that plays (Open Your Heart) really makes me sick. Awesome.Sonic Adventure was the start of Sonic's 'Modern' appearence, its an excellent game, and the storyline will send shivers of joy down your back, it was also the first game to allow you to raise Chao!, its really cool, also try the sequel (sonic Adventure 2) its got an even better storyline and is the first appearence of Shadow the Hedgehog and Rouge the batSonic Adventure
When the Dreamcast first came out, this was one of the games you had to have. Sonic, being the cornerstone of Sega, was expected to be Sega's&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Super-Mario-64/dp/B00000F1GM/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Super Mario 64</a>. Although it failed to meet that expectation, they did create a fairly fun game. I still think if you own a Dreamcast that this needs to be in your collection. If you don't own a Dreamcast, there is no reason to find one just for this game.

Graphics- 7/10
At the time these were really good graphics. They couldn't stand up to&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Soul-Calibur/dp/B00000K125/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Soul Calibur</a>, but it was still solid. Many problems lie within the graphics though. The level design is poor. The Adventure Zones are small and yet have a loading screen every time you walk through a door. Action Zones are sometimes better, like in Twinkle Park, but not usually. The camera has all kinds of problems. You will become annoyed very quickly if you find yourself in a small room and the camera is caught. The graphics are smooth and have some good details, but overall the level design is just ugly.

Story- 8.5/10
This is probably the best aspect of the game. In this game you don't just play as Sonic, you can play as five other characters: Tails, Amy, Knuckles, E-102, and Big. You can't just pick whoever you want, you have to start as Sonic and earn other characters. One you earn another character, you can go play through their stories. You earn other characters by meeting them in the game. So, the stories sort of intertwine. You never wonder what other characters were doing because you can play as them all and figure out. Other than that, the story is you basic Sonic story. Dr. Robotnik is causes havoc and you have to stop him. It's just interesting because it shows how the story affects all the characters in the game.

Sound- 6/10
Your basic Sonic sounds. You have some decent music here and there, and that stupid jump noise. A lot of music is reused over and over again. The sound in this game is just above average and has nothing special about it.

Gameplay- 6.5/10
Although they added in the ability to play as different characters, this is still a very bad gameplay wise game. As Sonic, you go through the longest portions of the game. Sonic's story is probably one of the most interesting and well worth your time. Tails consists of you racing Sonic to try to prove that you are just as good as him. This is fairly fun, but you are practically just replaying a portion of Sonic's game. As Amy you will be protecting a bird. You have a hammer as a weapon, which is at least a little interesting. As Big you have to fish to find your friend, Froggy. This is a change in pace, but it is poorly done and very annoying trying to catch that stupid frog. Knuckles can glide and climb on things. As Knuckles you are looking for pieces of crystals. This is fun, but far too easy. As E-102 you are working for Robotnik for most of the game, but you also get to play the aftermath. He has probably the easiest game in the entire game as he uses a gun.

Difficulty- 2/10 (Note- This is how much I like the difficulty)
The game is either extremely easy, or it is annoying like Big's is. The game can be flown through. The only thing that keeps the length up is the multiple characters. Even with all the characters, this game can easily be beat within 2 days. I know the game is based for a younger audience, but it could offer a little challenge. The only hard part in the entire game is the final 7th character you unlock.

Overall- 6.5/10
This game is a fun game worth playing; it just fails at being a truly entertaining experience. If you own a Dreamcast, I suggest you buy this game. If you don't own a Dreamcast, forget you even read this review and go buy something awesome.Sonic Adventure is an instant Dreamcast classic that shouldn't be missed by any Dreamcast owner.  The game features Sonic in full 3d with newly detailed level enviroment.  This was one of the first games to launch with the Dreamcast and is still one of my favorite Dreamcast game.  The game features a brand new system called the "Chao system" you basicly take care of them and show them new moves it's very simple but you'll need to have a VMU card to do it.  The game features more then 5 playable characters.  The story in the game is very lame if you ask me they could have done better, not to mention the english dubbing is terrible so just stick to japanes language and english subtitles.

I'll make this short and sweet for you.  Sonic Adventure is the best sonic game ever and has great levels, awesome 3d levels and lots of things to do but personally I wanted to beat the storyline instead of that whole chaos thing.  I'm going to make this review short and sweet...

Good

-Great Level desighn

-awesome 3d graphics of Sonic for the Dreamcast

-Lots of playable characters which is really great

-the new Chaos growing process, but I really didn't do it I just play the storyline..

-Superb fast pace action

Bad

-horrindess english dubbing

-the cutscenes look horrible even the ingameplay is better then the cutscenes

-Some really bad camera angles ruin the fast pace of this game

-I kind of wished it was a SONIC ONLY adventure...but ohwell

The ugly

-Robotnick..ehehheh

Overall Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast is an instant classic packed with full 3d enviroment and Full 3d character model and fast paced action with some really great music.  Some things like camera angles ruin this game and some really bad english dubbing makes it even worse!  But overall this game doesn't dissapoint Sonic fans and that is why I'm giving it a

4.2 out 5.

This is still in my opinion the best Sonic Game ever but it was ruined by some flaws...Great game overall though..

LatesNice speed and gameplay overall.  The only 2 cons are the camera angles and some of the enviroments aren't fully interactive.  You can't enter all the buildings with each character.  Even with that though it's a great game and some levels are extremely well matched with the background music "red hot mountain". I played this game for nearly three hours before realizing how long I'd been on it.  Deffinetly worth the time and money to pick this one up.This Is Eaiser Than the first one, but it's pretty fun i liked it. You get to play some original characters like, Bad Mister Frosty, Taffy, The Blob,  Bonker& Ickybodclay(My Favorite).

If You liked this game then check out, Clayfigter, C2: Judgement clay, Clay Fighter Extreme, Clayfighter 63 1/3: Sculptor's Cut, Clay Fighter: Tournament Edition.I'm not a big fan of the Diablo/D&D typr game but this game is really neat. The one big advantage of this game over Diablo is the ability to control 2 characters in one game. Very high replay value also makes this game a winner. Pick up a copy if you can; I've seen it rather inexpensive at local retail store. For the price, you can't go wrong.Now that I've gone back and started replaying Diablo, I realize how spoiled I've become playing Darkstone. Major improvements were made the the Diablo engine by GOD when they put this game out, and Diablo actually feels somewhat kludgy in comparison. Ability to change camera angle, the Previously Visited Places menu, that sort of thing. GOD/Take 2 did a good job with the patches, as well, not only fixing some D3D problems in the original version but adding playability as well. A fine product overall that's still got me banging away at monsters after months of single-minded playing.It's interesting to note, now that Diablo II has come out, how many of the improvements Darkstone incorporated into the Diablo play model are now found in Diablo II. Darkstone has a "previously visited  locations" menu that allows you to reduce the tedium of having to  navigate a lot of area you've cleaned out already; Diablo II has  "waypoints". Darkstone had extra skills which you could customize  classes with, as does Diablo II. Darkstone had a populated wilderness area,  as does Diablo II.
Darkstone gives you two characters, one of which will  contribute to battles when you're controlling the other, it can be a fun  game for a younger child (who wouldn't be able to play Diablo). Even if he  can't click fast enough to kill the monsters, he'll have backup. Also, the  shops use pictures of items, which means a child who can't read or is just  learning can still play, if he knows his numbers. The game generally seems  less spooky and bloody.
With all due respect to T. Byrl, the voice  acting is a bit strained, though not the worst we've heard.
The quests  pile up a lot more quickly than in Diablo, as well. It's difficult to get  through the first two villages without being accosted by half-a-dozen  villagers needing tasks performed. That keeps things moving  along.
Overall, the game seems a =lot= easier than Diablo. Spells cost  less, gold is more plentiful, magical items easier to come by, resurrection  spells allow one surviving character to bring bacak one that just died,  etc. etc. etc. And you have to worry less about moving in combat rather  than attacking, as would happen in Diablo quite a bit.
But the combat's a  bit mushy relative to Diablo--a little too automatic feeling, perhaps,  which is the only thing that keeps me from giving it the five stars. I  killed the first "boss", losing one of my own characters, before  I knew what happened. But then I could just resurrect him.
Overall, a  worthwhile contribution to the genre.Not perfect by any means, but it has addicted me. Graphics are OK. Voice-overs are not the kind Blizzard has made us come to expect. Not the best story. But I am enjoying it- and for thirty bucks that says a lot.
True, they also won't win any points for originality... all though there  are a number of game play innovations that I hope the staff at Diablo II  won't ignore(upgrading weapons, skills, better mapping, running, and that  feature that autopilots you to certain places you've been before). Single  player was fun- featuring the ability to use two characters, but as with  almost games I play nowadays- multiplayer is what I care about. And with  two good friends- We had quite a blast romping through the dungeons at  Heat.net, all though its difficult to get a game going there as it hasn't  achieved a high level of popularity. What made it even better was that the  three of us were using Roger Wilco to communicate. It felt like we were in  our High school Dungeons and Dragons days even though we were in different  states.
Well until Diablo II comes out (as many have said) you could do a  lot worse than this game.When it came out, this game was HUGELY anticipated. After all, the Sonic the Hedgehog series is one of the most popular in videogame history. Was it worth the wait? Was it worth the hype? Is it worth picking up even now?
The transition from 2D to 3D has been much discussed in the past, and you can see why. What works great in 2D doesn't always translate so well into the 3D world. And when a series makes this sometimes awkward transition there are usually a few hiccups.
Sonic Adventure attempts to use level design that gives you the speed of the original games, while also featuring puzzle solving and rpg/adventure elements (talk to people, play mini-games, open doors, ect.). By featuring several different characters for you to play as, the game allows you to play a balanced game (sonic), blast through stages with nothing slowing you down (tails), run away like a chicken (amy), shoot everythign in sight (the robot), go on a treasure hunt (knuckles), or spend all your time fishing(?) (big the cat). Each of these elements is entertaining in its own right, but where the game really shines is the action scenes as sonic and tails. The adventure portion of this game suffers from the same flaw as many rpgs (namely, you can't find the stupid key to open the door). So the first time through you may hit a few snags. And the some of the more adventure/platformer elements can get VERY frustrating (I hate the platforming section of the snow level and the skydeck level in particular). And of course, the collision detection, polygon clipping, and camera problems are pretty darn buggy.
Still, you've got to love this game. The graphics are great, some of the levels (the first level, windy valley, and speed highway especially) are just plain awesome. Everyone should at the very least play this game, and true videogames fans should own it. It has flaws that can't be ignored, but there are enough moments of greatness (how about the part in the temple where you see the stone carving of chaos destroying the world?!) to more than make up for it. Definitely check it out.Whoa! I have never seen such a fast-paced game like this one! After playing the demo on the Sega Dreamcast generator disk I decided to try to find this and after playing for about 3 hours I was definently satisfied with it. Being a long time fan of Sonic (Sonic the Hedgehog 1, 2, and 3, Sonic and Knuckles, Sonic 3-D Blast) I was looking forward to this Dreamcast title. The graphics are absolutely amazing, the music is great and the action is fast, furious and entertaining. However, I have to deduct a star for the occasional camera angle which somtimes interfered with gameplay. Besides that, this game is a keeper for all Dreamcast owners. Get this along with it's awesome sequel Sonic Adventure 2 ASAP!"Sonic Adventure" starts off easily, and it's easy to get the hang of.  However, it may be a little too easy.  There is a lack of puzzles, and the bosses are pretty simple.  I guess I'm the person that likes RPG's like Zelda and Grandia II.  The story is ho-hum, but once you get into it, the story really breaks off in different directions when you see the game through the eyes of the six characters you can play with.  That's the main reason I gave it four stars instead of two.  Also, the graphics and sound are good.  My only gripe about the sound is when characters are talking, their mouths speak Japanese, but they speak in English.  (That is if you have the language set on English.)  I'm not sure of this, but I AM sure that their oral movements definately aren't matching what they say.  Overall, it's worth the price.In this game you play Sonic the Hedgehog attempting to Chaos, the watery God of Destruction, from annihilating the world.  Later in the game, five additional characters are introduced into the game - each with their own style of play.
There are basically two types of levels in Sonic.  In action stages, the game behaves like any other platform game (Mario Adventure, Pandemonium, Crash Bandicoot), where you run around a 3D world along a predefined path, dodging traps, destroying enemies and collection objects.  In adventure stages, your character is allowed to free form explore - talking to characters and finding hidden objects.
There are also a couple of mini games (including a chao breeding simulation) which provide additional amusement.
The graphics are beautiful to look at and the level design is extensive and complex.  The sound effects and sound track are also very well executed, although there is no attempt to lipsynch the voiceovers.  Overall, the game is fun and has a lot of replay value.This game COULD have been a classic but it isn't. The game has been developed under a very strict deadline and because of this you'll often get the feeling that things should've been tweaked a bit. Don't get me wrong, it still has got plenty of things in it to justify the purchase but it's a darn shame that they didn't wait, let's say a month, with the release.
I've got almost no complaints about the graphics. They're very good and move very fast. The camera doesn't always cooperate though, and that can sometimes be very annoying. It also seems that Tails hovers a bit over the landscape so he doesn't let himself be controled fluently.
The difficultylevel of the Sonic and Tails campaign is okay, although sometimes it's a little too easy. I didn't find the Knuckles-campaign quite entertaining. In each level you'll have to find 3 emeralds, adventure-style. This isn't fun because the sonic-games are fun because they're fast and pretty much straight-forward. With knuckles you'll sometime be looking for an emerald for five minutes. The robot-campaign is far too easy, but has a very original and even moving story-line. You'll have to find out for yourself!
The leveldesign varies from pretty good (snow-level) to simply amazing (amusementpark-level)
Overall it's a pretty good game that could've been better. It doesn't cost all that much, though.I have been a fan of the whole of the Clay Fighter series and i have to say that i am slightly disappointed with this one.  The graphics are okay, there are plenty of characters to choose from, but i think that it is far to easy and that the game had been rushed.  The price is excellent and i recommend to everyone that you get this as the price of this game won't be around for long.  If you want the best fighting game on the N64 then i wouldnt recommend this, but if you want some fun then this is the game for youDescent 3 is Interplay's follow-up to the highly acclaimed Descent franchise.  You are once again cast in the role of the Material Defender.  This time, however, your mission is one of retribution as you battle  virally-infected robots across 17 levels (15 normal plus 2 secret). You  must prove that the head of the PTMC intentionally contaminated the  company's robots with an alien virus.  After your rescue in the stunning  opening cutscene you learn that the PTMC went so far to modify the virus as  well.
You will fly a total of three ships in this sequel, including the  old PyroGL.  Weapons run the gamut from the standard concussion missile to  the all-powerful Black Shark.  New energy weapons such as the Microwave  Cannon add a new twist to decimating enemies and standbys such as the  Fusion Cannon and Plasma Cannon make a return. The graphics are  breath-taking and the sound is nothing short of immersive.
Descent 3  requires a 200MHz Pentium processor with a 4MB 3D accelerator card that  supports Direct3D, Glide, or OpenGL.  I recommend a Pentium II or III class  machine to get the most enjoyment out the game.  Certain details can be  turned off to get an acceptible framerate on lower-end machines but it  detracts from the overall experience.
If you're a Descent fan or a newbie  Descent 3 is a nice to get acquainted with the wonderful world of PC  gaming.If you expect Sonic Adventure is just going to be another one of those typical Sonic games - think again. Sonic Adventure is  loads of fun, essential for your Dreamcast collection. (Who can own a Sega system without a Sonic game?) I think that is a huge accomplishment for Sega, because it's really hard to find a game out there with a good story line that is appropriate for anyone. The graphics are great! Unfortunately, you will probably be paying more attention to the realistic scenery than beating the game (Sonic Adventure is rediculously easy). I beat it in 2 days, I'm 13 years old. However, my 9 year old cousin spent a lot more time on it, it took her about 6 weeks or so. It basically depends on your problem solving skills, and things like that. Oh - did I mention the camera problem? (This one hurts) Throughout the game, the camera is a MAJOR obstacle. You are CONSTANLY hidden behind some rock, pillar, or even the scenery! Sometimes this can give you a bit of a headache, the camera is so bad it makes you dizzy.
Overall, I give this game 4 stars - it would have been 5 if there wasn't that stupid camera problem. Also, I recommend this game for all ages, especially ages around 7-15.SOnic is back and is looking like he never has before. This game is very fun and addictive. It has awesome graphics, and has tons of levels. The only bad thing I can think of about this game is it is a little to easy. You can unlock up to six characters,each with their own adventure. You can play mini-games, and replay previous levels. This is a great game and no one should miss out on it. The short version: Graphics: 4.8 Sound: 4.6 Control: 4.5 Fun Factor: 4.8 Total: 4.7This is a Sonic game in 3D, that about sums it up. Everything you would expect from a traditional Sonic game is here.  Fast paced gameplay, great graphics, a memorable soundtrack, all of the holes to fall in and glitches also. If you go too fast, you will often find yourself getting stuck in a wall or falling through the scenery. The camera also seems to have a hard time keeping up with the action. The stages of the game are standard Sonic, including an ice level, a casino level, a green hill-type level, ect.  Though many of the features in Sonic Adventure are just revisions of older ideas, there are also some new additions that keep the game fresh. Plenty of mini-games and multiple characters give the game replay value. Despite the minor drawbacks, Sonic Adventure is one game for the Dreamcast that should not be missed.I liked this game alot, it's challenging and it took me awhile to beat (longer than most other games). I do recommend buying the strategy guide because it's easy to miss alot. Anyways if you like the original Myst you'll love this. Great graphics, only flaws was there was a glitch here and there but nothing major.There's weird hybrids, and then there's "The Misadventures of Tron Bonne", which might best be described as a combination of single-player "Mario Party" with the inventorty and character  interaction of a "Final Fantasy" game.  But that description  misses two important factors: wanton plunder and CUTE LITTLE  SERVBOTS!
The goal of the game is to collect one-million zenny (a Capcom  monetary unit) to pay off the Bonne family debts.  The young,  morally-unencumbered Tron is a mechanical whiz, so she sets off in the  mighty ship Gesselschaff with its robotic crew to raise the funds the  old-fashioned way: by stealing them.
The four major modes in the title  are mini-games: two variants on dungeon-crawling, a puzzle section, and a  3-D platform shootout.  Tron, usually piloting her mechanical mobile suit,  Gustaff, is assisted by 40 cute-as-a-button "servbots".  The  great thing about the servbots is their absolute innocence in the service  of piracy -- it's hilarious to blow the doors off a house, send in the  servbots, and watch them run out yelling "yay!", their arms full  of loot.
The servbots have distinct personalities, and unique skills that  can be unlocked by giving each a unique object.  They can also improve  their core skills by playing still more mini-games aboard the ship.  And  for servbots that get lazy, there's a torture room where you're challenged  to spike, torch, and flatten naughty servbots.
It's a peculiar mix, but  open-minded gamers will love this title...This is one of the most fun RTS I have ever played. You get to slap around your minions, torture the good guys, and pretty much have a blast being evil. The bile demons are great, and the dark mistresses laughs are creepy. This has a very good sense of dark humor, and I would not recommend it to anyone under 13, or anyone who didn't like dark humor.

We got Evil Genius because we heard it was made by the same people. Evil Genius does NOT hold a candle to this. I still play it a hell of a lot, and I still have fun with it.

The only problems I have is the fact that it tends to have problems with the videos on my computer, pretty much not playing them. And the fact you cannot get multiplayer to work. If the multiplayer worked, there would be no question about giving this game 5 stars.The Playstation version of Riven is definantly not as good as the PC version, but it still adds up to be a great experience. Solid gameplay, crips graphics, and top-notch sound. But still falls short in some areas. Disc changing can get very tedious. That's one reason why I recommend the DVD version for the pc. But it's no doubt this game will suck you in and keep you sucked for a long time. Get ready to experience a whole new world.Dungeon Keeper 2 is a great game. The plot is that you build a dungeon to attract creatures to fight heroes to get portal gems to give to the Horned Reaper who collects them to get to go to the Overworld [our world]. Sadly this never happens because number 3 was canceled but the game is a hidden jewel.

  You can build all of the normal dungeon-esque rooms, eg. prisons, gladiator pits, and torture chambers. You can recruit many creatures from the usual demons and undead to the odd imps and goblins. The reason I rated the game 4 overall is because of the incompatibility between DK2 and XP. The game works on my XP for about an hour then it crashes or freezes. The patches also won't work because some goon deleted patch 1.0 to 1.3 which is what you need to get the rest all the way to 1.7. [Confusing, eh?] If you think you can have fun for an hour or get it to work then I strongly suggest you try the game. You won't be disappointed.I really liked this game.  I played pen & pencil Dungeons & Dragons for years, so I have an appreciation of the dungeon-master concept behind this game.  Dungeon Keeper 2 is a blend of real-time strategy, base-building, and sim-developing, but the real treat is being able to play as naughty as you want--and be rewarded for it!  There are a few things that I would change about DK2, but overall, I found it quite enjoyable, even years after its initial release.

Gameplay: There are three different gameplay modes.  First, there is the campaign, which includes several mission in which you snuff out the lairs of heroes and rival keepers on your way to dominating the region.  Typically, you build a base by tunneling out rooms and finding gold, attract a legion of monster henchmen while doing so, and then take on the forces of your rival.  There is enough variation in the missions to prevent boredom, although there are a few very tough missions (especially the last two).  There is also a skirmish mode that lets you fight against 1-3 rival keepers while fighting off other interlopers. The skirmish game can be customized in various ways, although there are only about 20 maps.  Finally, there is a "my pet dungeon" mode for those who just want to build their subterranean masterpieces without being troubled by opposition (although you can choose to include set-piece battles against heroes). All of the gameplay modes have their appeal, though I liked the campaign and skirmish the best.  The game can be played online, but I suspect there is not much of a multiplayer community these days.

The game is fairly easy to play, once you master the controls.  You'll need certain rooms in place (lair, hatchery, blacksmith, prison, torture chamber, and library) to really get things going, along with a number of choice spells (heal, rally, make gold) that can be researched at the library.  You have limited control of your creatures, beyond being able to drag and drop them.  You can take direct control over a creature with the possession spell and even have a number of creatures follow you.  This puts the game into first-person perspective, which can be fun but not all that useful in later stages of the campaign. But again, the real joy of the game is all of the naughty things that you can do, like torture captured heroes in your custom-built torture chamber, have corpses drug to your graveyard where they might eventually attract a vampire to do your bidding, or summon the god-like Horny Devil to turn the tide of a battle.  A fully fleshed-out dungeon feels almost like a small town under your control, and you can spend hours just admiring and tinkering with your handy work (or trying to keep your minions happy).  And though a somewhat dark game, DK2 has more than its share of humor, from the Vincent Price-like narrator to the casino that gives you a ridiculously funny treat if one of your monsters hits the jackpot.  The game never comes across as cheesy or trivial, but it obviously does not take itself too serious.

Graphics: For a game that came out in the late 1990s, DK2 looks pretty good.  Models are detailed enough to be credible representations of various monsters, and animations are pretty decent.  Some models such as the enemy hero lords are used too often, but otherwise the visuals are good enough to allow the game to immerse you.

Sounds: The game does have enough sound effects to convince you that it takes place in an underground dungeon.  However, the best sounds are the voice acting, which is top-knotch all the way around.  The narrator is both sinister and hilarious, and the enemy heroes are over-the-top in their arrogant, dismissive attitudes toward evil.  The music is okay, but not particularly gripping.

Technical Issues: The game has been quite stable on my system, even though I have XP with service pack 2. Be sure to install the latest game patch before playing.

Replayability/Value: I picked this game up new for about $12 on eBay, so I certainly got my money's worth. I don't see much replay value in the campaign, though I can imagine replaying it again at least once.  The skirmish mode is decent, and there are enough maps to keep you playing for a while.  If you are looking to play online, I'm afraid you'll have a hard time finding a game.

Pros:
+great concept for a game
+terrific voice acting
+a few different gameplay modes
+the dark humor is spot on
+"it's good to be bad"

Cons:
+no online community at this point
+a few frustrating campaign missions
+no modding community to speak ofOn a scale of 1-10 the graphics in this game are a 10. As for the AI- its a 1.they can't figure out how to go around any obstacles. There are only 20 missions-I beat the entire game in 2 nights. Its a lot of fun though. There  is a trade-off between fun and frustrating. You will probably play this game  for a long time and i reccomend getting it.Mechwarrior 3 is the sequel to the classic mechwarrior 2 which made me stay up almost every night. Now, I must say the graphics are beautiful. The lighting effects are shown well on my Creative Labs Savage4. Gameplay is  pretty impressive too, I use a gravis blackhawk. For keyboard users, you do  get a fold-out leaflet with all the keys, pretty intimidating at first. The  biggest problem with this game is its length and difficulty. The missions  finish way to fast and are way too easy. I beat most of the missions on the  first try. I also finished the game in less than a week. But you  multiplaying on any of those networks. I'll probably buy the expansion (I  hope its good). There arn't many new mechs too, so another disappointment  there. All in all, this is a good game, but to fully get its value, you  have to play against other people.This game is a hoot. Taking the original's over-the-top Evil to a new level in graphics and a far improved first-person engine, it basically polishes and refines the gameplay of DK1.
You control a variety of  minions (from Goblins to Dark Angels) with a variety of wants and needs,  all toward the larger purpose of wiping out the good in the world. And a  simpering, pompous sort of good it is, full of bloated speech and poseurs  who care at least as much about how good they look as they do about  fighting evil.
Much like Bullfrog's Populous: The Beginning, however,  there isn't a lot of game here. It's more of a puzzle game than a real-time  strategy game, and once you solve the puzzle, actually enacting it is  usually pretty straightforward. Like P:TB, the beginning levels are easily  won by accident, making this a good game for children if you don't mind the  "suggestive content". (Actually, all there is is that the Pain  Mistresses enjoy being tortured.  But we're not talking about "Soldier  of Fortune" violence or "Panty Raider" sexuality,  here.)
Anyway, the aesthetics of it, the humor, the "My Pet  Dungeon" feature, and the overall attention to detail make it a hoot  to explore, even if it doesn't have a lot of depth, particularly for casual  gamers with a dark sense of humor.We waited quite a while for Dungeon Keeper 2 to come out, and bought it immediately when it did. On one hand, it's great for a sequel. People who played DK1 will easily be able to pick up on moving units, building rooms,  lining corridors with traps.
The graphics are better in the sense that  they're more geared towards future development. Instead of pixel-based  graphics, the creatures and rooms are now drawn with polygons. While that  makes some of the monsters look clumsy, it does mean that future graphics  will be much smoother and cleaner.
Going down into your dungeon by  possessing a creature does not cause the creatures to turn into a cloud of  dots - the rooms you roam through are still crisp and easy to see. Roaming  through your own dungeons is one of the true pleasures of this game,  too!
There are only a few extra rooms - you'd have hoped for much more  from a sequel that took this long to make. The casino is neat, if only  because a jackpot-winning minion starts dancing and singing when he wins.  (Disco Inferno!)
Rooms have better graphics, though. The hen-houses in  the hatchery, the on-wall bookshelves and torture racks, everything shows a  subtle touch.
If choosing between DK1 and DK2, I'd definitely recommend  people get this game. The challenges and gameplay in DK2 are better than  DK1, and DK1 has many new extra features like Pet Dungeons.
New players  will appreciate having a well crafted game that is a fun challenge, while  experienced players will appreciate the subtle differences between the old  and new version.
Don't expect a masterpiece of Sequelhood, but do expect  a fun strategy gaming experience that will last quite a while!Back in 1993, a little game called Myst appeared. Everyone went crazy for  it -- it featured amazing graphics, addicting search and explore gameplay,  and it was actually educational. A main part of the game was reading, so it  figures that many parents were so supportive of it. It was also, though,  terribly spooky at times. You could be anywhere in the world of Myst and  still feel a general sense of... well, spookiness.
But Myst was in 1993  -- and even though it held well throughout several years (which is  amazingly good), it started to be noticed more as a classic than current  technology.
So how well can "Riven: The Sequel To Myst" hold up  against "current technology" and the original classic? By simply  making the adventure more intresting, more long, and with more  "spookiness" -- an original Myst-cliche that adds drama to the  game.
"Riven" is even more rewarding than "Myst" so  much to the fact that it is sometimes speechless. There's five CDs to the  game -- that's clearly enough for anyone to buy this game. Even as it  starts out, you better look for clues. The developers made it so that if  you do not look for enough information, you could go from one disc to  another in less than 20 minutes.
The graphics, while nice, aren't the  best in the world. Even the control (using the Playstation controller) is  sometimes sticky. But believe me, you'll get used to it.
It's definetly  worth a buy from any fans of the "Myst" era.I initially gave this one star because it was crashing on me constantly but I recently narrowed it down to a plug-in I was using for my porsche wheel. Game plays well and looks gorgeous when image spanned across three monitors. I would have given it five stars if it wasn't for the annoying Microsoft Games for Live application that makes you go through hoops to set it up and causes problems of it's own (occasional crashes)Mech Warriors 3 is a game that no doubt has revolutionized the graphics industry. There is no other way to put it, the graphics are really great, surprising for an older game! The game is so fun, and I like the way you can customize the way your bot looks, moves, and fires. My friend did something that was so cool, I do it too. He took one of the heavyweights, and put on almost 100 LRM's and two gause rifles(Probably the best weapon),one on each hand. He then battled several of those tiny robots-whos name escapes me-and took em out, indian style. It was cruel, but totally awesome. I use that tactic almost every time on battle mode.
If you go to options, you can turn off the heat sensors(I hate them) and put on invincibility, which is also cool.
For kids who's parents don't like them getting violent games, probably don't want this because of how discusting it is to kill one of the people running on the ground. It reminds me of Half-life.
I think this game is worth it new or used, and recommend it to bot-lovin kids.The first foremost negative aspect about this game is the fact that it doesn't really have a soundtrack. It's only got two songs on the CD and this is quite a shock and disapointment since, for example, Mechwarrior 2: Mercenaries had a full, awesome soundtrack. Nevertheless, the 2 songs seemlesly integrate themselves into the feeling and the repeats aren't that noticeable.

The game has a good plot, good graphics and good action. In multiplayer it's even better, but the system of finding a server could have been easier and more straight-forward. Matching is done via a Microsoft website where you can find games and chatrooms and you also need to have installed Zonematch, a small program similar to MSN Messenger. In my opinion everything should be incorporated into an in-game multiplayer interface, just like the majority of other titles out there.

You, along with other troops are sent on a mission to neutralize enemy forces occupying a planet. As you reach orbit the dropships are shot down by enemy forces. You have to fight your way through, meet up with your other lancemates that were also shot down and find a way to get off the planet alive while at the same time driving to accomplish your mission.

The game puts you in the cockpit of awesome, powerful, 80-ton humanoid warmachines with enough firepower to level a city. The array of mechs and arsenal won't disappoint. Customize your warmachine any way you want and take it to the battlefield.

I especially like the mission commentaries, video feeds and voice acting, they're very well done and really help create the overall atmosphere.

BE ADVISED! The game out of the box may have slight incompatibility issues with Windows XP especially if you have Service Pack 2 installed, so make sure you grab yourself the latest game update patch from the internet! Once patched it runs without any problems.I've loved all of the Mechwarrior games, they are always so easy: stand and pick other Mechs off at extreme long range. Besides graphics changes the two big changes are a nice zooming rectile, to make those long-range shots easier and a "Mobile Field Base" that will fix you up in the middle of a mission. All of this makes the campaign short, just 10 hours or so.
I had one glaring problem, it wouldn't install or run on Windows 2000. Maybe I could have gotten it to run if I had hunted down and hand-installed all the files. It ran without a single hitch on Windows 98SE.This is a great drinking game.  Try it sometimes with a couple of you drinking buddies, its a great game to see who can catch the biggest fish or even team up and play a tourney.  The best part is the more fish you catch the drunker you all will get.  Very fun game and another must have game for the Dreamcast system.this game is very boring! is not even little bit of fun! the graphics are good. the game is a person on a boat and fishing! how boring is that! if you like fishing rent it first because the game could be boring to you too.i've played all the capcom maevel games and this is the best the hulk is actually green .not pink or grey but green like he is suposed to be.the rounds go fastNFL 2K is one of the best football games ever. First of all it has great graphics,it also has great play calling interface and last but not least begginers can get used to the game fast. Some of the flaws in this game is that there is no franchise mode and  when you whant to play a season the space to save a season on your V.M.U. is outrageous 140 blocks of space leaving you with ten blocks of space left. One last problem is the running game there is know way in hell that your running back is ever going to run for a 60 yard touchdown because it is amazing just to be able to run 20 yards in this game. Well i have told you the pros and the cons about the game if you ask me though the cons did not stop me from liking this game,there are some games that i walk away from either whanting my money back or being truly [ticked] off but not this one.I am not a big football person but this game has sparked my interested.  I am enjoying the play action, the realistic graphics, and all the high quality sound.  It is worth owning.NFL 2K is a great game for the money--....  You'll have a lot of fun playing.  The graphics are great.  The gameplay is simple and good.  I think it's playable even for someone who does not know football but wants to play this game b/c of its raved reviews. The play diagrams tell where the players are going, doing, and the players in play are tagged with control button icons so you know exactly whom your QB has to pass the ball. It's great for beginners as well as experienced players.  The only problem I see is the inability for a second player to call timeouts.  This is actually a BIG problem. That's why it gets 4 stars instead of 5.Alright, ill start off with the bad,then the good. The first bad part of the game that plagues every sport game, it takes to much blankin memory. Good lord, the back says it takes 184.hey, they {were incorrect], 189.sounds like it doesnt make a difference, well it does.if it took as much as they say it did,i wouldnt have had to delete game files to play it.....another thing, although the games sound is excellent, the voive over becomes repetetive after some amount of hours in gameplay. Now to the good. The gameplay is great,decently fast, with varied difficulty levels. However, if you're playing rookie, then you move up to pro.its almost impossible, the learning curve is high. But the graphics look really great.im not comparing this game to its more famous counterpart nfl2k1. Im saying the graphics are great, sound is just as great,and gameplay is excellent. You can create your own player(it has a good create a player mode)or even a team!!however, what really stinks is you cant play with a created team in a season,thats stupid. Now the season mode is pretty cool.you could have fun with this even if you don't like football, and if you do like me, youll have ablast. And with the great price it has, it won't put a big bend in your wallet.solid.I like sports games and find many of them are good value for money. But I have found many of the nfl games to be hard to play. If you didn't know  much about the plays etc then it made it even harder. But not as much with  nfl 2k, sure it helps if you know abit about the plays, but there is a  feature where the dc can select a play for you. A good way to get started.  The graphics are brilliant, but still has some problems every now and  again. The ref is at times poorly done and forget about the sideline  graphics. But the stadiums and players are amazing. The few problems the  game does have i am sure will be worked out in nfl 2k1. But overall this  game is a ton of fun with a lot of playability.This is a great game but has some audio bugs that are annoying (sometimes a sound 'sticks' and repeats over and over.. or the commentators who  comment on the wrong team at halftime, etc..Don't you remember the times about 7 or so years ago before the vs. games like X-Men Vs. Street Fighter or Marvel Super Heroes Vs. Street Fighter were out, when you were at your local mall's arcade room, and you spent so much time and needed money on this one game everyone was lining up to play, you kept winning and no one could beat you, you had a blast and you ruled the arcade, you used the Amazing Spider-Man, or Good Ol' Stars and Stripes himself, Captain America, and maybe a little Incredible Hulk was throw in just to show off your skills with multiple players, and you used the Infamouse Yellow, Blue, Green, and all other Gems you could get your hands on to build Speed, Strength, Power, Defence and pretty much eveything else with your character! Well I do, and I was so stoked when it came out, and now you can bring those great feelings back with the PSX Version of this classic fighter from Capcom!

Gameplay: Almost arcade perfect with minimal slowdowns, barely noticeable, and you can still pull off everything in here that was possible in the arcade version.

Sound: Perfect, unmuffled voices that match perfectly to all characters, and music is still here(and still rules)with no remixes(Thank God)! Music plays just like you would hear it in the arcade!

Graphics: Great considering the Ram limitations of the PSX(like that was a problem for this game in the 1st place), and they were done with POLYGONS, yes, POLYGONS!

Characters: You get a line up of the following characters:
1. Spider-Man (My favorite! "Maximum Spider!")

2. Captain America ("Justice Will Prevail")

3. The Incredible Hulk (What's to say, he's a "Monster" hahahahahaha...sorry.)

4. Magneto (He rules and can pull off great combos!)

5. Wolverine (The cheap one)

6. Juggernaut (He's huge and probably deals more damage than anyone!)

7. Iron Man (With the Infamouse "Proton Cannon!")

8. Blackheart (A good and Cheep caharacter, but not as much as Wolvie.)

9. Psylocke (One of my favorite X-men, and overall choice over Wolvie, to bad Gambit wasn't included.)

10. Shuma-Gorath (Not used by me, but still deals damage needed to prevail in this game.)

Over-All: If I could, a 9.3/10.0, but I can't, so 4 out of 5, the reason being, could have been one point better if it weren't for the PSX limitations, but man, that definetly didn't stop me from getting it AT ALL! GET IT IF YOU DON'T HAVE IT!!

Thank's to Amazon.com for posting this review and YOU for reading it!Not sure whether to give this a 3 or a 4. This is kind of like a first person shooter like half-life, only you are too weak to really get into big  fights. It has some RPG elements, but only barely. The graphics are ugly,  but i don't really care about graphics. The respawning monsters (but not  respawning ammo) are annoying, and the weapons that break after a couple of  shots are MAJORLY ANNOYING!  That alone is reason to have the author  kicked. But despite all of that, the game is actually fun to play, and the  story is somewhat interesting. You could consider Deus Ex to be System  Shock 3, since it's extremely similar only with better technology and  weapons that don't break as easily (although the ammo is still limited -  none of these are Quake kiling sprees). But SS2 is a fun game, you just got  to keep your expectations somewhat low, because there are a lot of little,  annoying things hereI really can't say enough good things about this game.  Firstly the code  is rock-solid.  It's probably the only 3D game that's ever played on our  clunky home computer without crashing or giving us glitches.  It also has  an atmosphere that constantly sends prickles down your spine and encourages  you to do more than shoot everything in sight.
This game WILL scare you.  As you fall into the world you'll start to jump at every bump and hiss  around you... and if you hear a monkey chattering you'll probably start  trying to shoot evrtything in sight.
Another interesting aspect is that  at the start of the game you get to choose if you want to be a straight out  soldier, a psychic, or a technical minded fellow.  The skills that you  choose can allow you to slip through the many traps and dangers in the  game.
The plot is that you are a soldier who has just recieved some  cybernetic implants.  You wake up from cold-sleep not knowing quite who you  are or how you got to where you are, and only have a voice on your comm  telling you what you need to do.  You're given help in the form of  cybernetic modules that upgrade your skills and allow you to gain new ones.  You pick up weapons from fallen monsters and also gain healing  items.
But you do more than just shoot things.  You have to operate  machinery, you gather up bits of crewmembers' logs to piece together the  truth, you perform chemical analysis on alien organs to find out what they  are, and you hack into replicator systems to try and get useful  items.
There were only two annoyances in this game, firstly weappons  degraded after use at a very unrealistic rate, and the monsters kept  re-spawning even if you wiped an area clean of them.  BUT.. the developers  were kind enough to come up with a patch you can download to fix this  particular problem, so its not that big of a deal.
Usually I'm a  straight-out adventure game player and I avoid 1st person shooters, but  SSII changed my opinion of them remarcably.  It was great to actually sink  my teeth into something with plot.System Shock 2 follows many conventions of a role-playing game, with considerable first-person action involved.  Like "Thief" (whose engine was used to create "System Shock 2"), the objective is not  necessarily to kill everything in sight, but to achieve the required goals.  You play a new recruit onboard a starship fighting against alien viruses  and the ship's evil main computer.  You start with some initial skills of  your choice and are given chances to improve your skills as the games  progresses.  The goals you need to achieve range from mundane to  complicated: locating crucial items, unlocking rooms, restore power to  equipments, hacking into terminals, scouring dead astronauts' journals for  clues, collecting chemicals from laboratories that enable you to research  on technologies that help you combat your enemies, find tools that repair  and maintain your weapons, and so on.  My favorite puzzle is finding pieces  of a secret code hidden among the numerous video screens on one of the  levels.
Unfortunately, first-person combats are not as fun as they could  be.  Monsters respawn (shudder!).  And, depending on the skills you  acquired at the start of the game, you may not be skillful enough to combat  efficiently at the beginning, and will be prone to dying over and over  again and having to keep restoring your save games (which, on my Pentium II  400 with 96MB, takes over 1 minute per restore).
Also, the  cyber-environment in System Shock, which many loved, is not in this game.Mega Man Legends is a great new series for mega man.  The story takes him to an island searching for energy crystals on his dig adventures.  Game play is fun and easy to learn.  The game has plenty of secret goodies for you too discovery adding hours of replay value.  easy and fun to play but not easy enough that you'll only spend oh...one week or so one it.  Loads of fun a most have for hardcore mega man and new mega man fans of all ages!!!NBA 2K is not the best basketball game for the DC.  NBA 2K1 is better.  2K1, ..., you can play network games; has more players including classic players; better moves and controls; no more not catching a pass or passing the ball to someone out of bounds; no more crazy camera angle changes that sometimes cause you a turnover b/c you walked backcourt, etc.  But NBA 2K is a great game.  It's better than EA sports or anyother Bball games out there.  The graphic is excellent, controls are easy to use and simple, and playing against the computer is a good challenge.  It's quite addictive because it takes a little time to become good.  So, most likely, you will lose to the computer at first, even with the best team.  Don't get discouraged, you will become better and so will your players (really). ....This game was a blast! At least 7 years ago for me. But I have fond memories of it, and enjoyed playing it with friends. That's all I have to say about that.Not that many golf games in the video game industry can actually sell very, very well. Most of them use a major player's name, and suppose to have their "skills" in the process. Not that many of them can have a strong sense of enjoyment in the golf world, where everyone wants a more serious side in the sports world with football, and basketball. However, Nintendo seemed to hit the nail on the head with their 2000 creation.
With Mario Golf, the game consists of the start of four golfers, including Baby Mario, Peach, and a couple of others. Throughout the game, you can access the Get Character mode, which can help you challenge other characters like Mario, Bowser, and Yoshi. Once you win the character, you also need them, the harder the challenger in the round. It is also important in the Tournament mode, where you can also earn enough points toward newer golf courses and challenging holes in the process. Each course reflecting on the cute, Mario Brothers themed style, which makes it appealing to all ages old and young, where the other games don't seem to have that sense of enjoyment.
Although Nintendo stopped making games for the Nintendo 64, Mario Golf is only one of the very few sports games I highly recommend for the system. Although many people might not see the review, because of the newer game system reviews and newer games of the Gamecube, Xbox, and Playstation 2.Broke within the first day, but hell, its a N64 GS, what do you expect? It can in very nice condition and worked perfectly till it froze.This game is excellent. The replay value is infinite- there are many characters, courses, etc. available for the dedicated player to find. On  top of that, there are multiple modes for up to four players (Two or three players is usually enough though- with 4 players people usually get bored)
The graphics are adequate for the game. However, the sound is pretty abysmal. The music is absolutely terrible on almost every course- and it is recommended that you turn it off.
I also would have enjoyed a create-a-player mode. However, this game is the best fun golfing can offer with its many courses, characters, and game modes.Ive seen some of the reviews and this item is notorious for just dieing. well its cheap enough. it dies ill get another. it does what its supposed to do. cheat your way to victory and enjoy your old games again :) Make sure the terminals on your game are clean or it won't work.When buying a Game Shark to use with certain games you should keep a few things in mind. For one this is kind of "cheating" when playing a game. So if you're playing a really complicated game and you're telling people, "Oh yeah, I beat that game in like two days." But you were also invincible and had unlimited ammo, it's not as much to brag about as someone who used no cheats and beat it in three or four days. On the flipside video games are supposed to be entertaining (don't mix 'entertaining' up with 'ruling your life', get out of the house every now and then). Anyway, they're supposed to be entertaining and there is nothing entertaining about playing the same level 50 times in one week trying to figure out how the hell you get on the other side of this wall to flip the switch to open the door you're stuck behind and have to get through in order to get the switch and blah blah blah. You know, THAT whole bit. Using a Game Shark can let help you get through so you could later one day play the game without any cheats and when you run into a wall you can be like, "Heh heh, BLOW IT UP!!" or.... you know.... whatever it is you figured out with the Game Shark. It can also help make games that are too challenging for you, and make them easier for you. Different people have different ideas of entertainment. Some like a challenge and some just like to blow things up or walk into a building of about 30 or 40 people and take them all out without getting a scratch on them. Whether you love or hate them, I think everyone owns one or two at one point in their gaming phase. I know I thought they were lame and just taking the easy way out but I have one for my Nintendo 64, Game Boy Color, and Game Boy Advanced. I don't have much time to play video games like I did when I was younger but when I do get the time to pick one up I want to be entertained. Some days I like a challenge and other days I just wanna fly through a few levels real quick just to pass the time and actually have gotten somewhere.

These things usually come loaded with tons of codes for games. If you have a lot of games that aren't on it you can Google the title of the game, followed by a comma (one of these things ",") and the word "gameshark" or "gameshark codes." You can also remove games from the gameshark that you'll never use. You completely control what codes are loaded into the gameshark and what codes are active.Ever get tired of playing a video game? Just get a Gameshark! This product lets you use it to enter codes into any game to modify it. Extra lives, extra equipment, unlimited this or that, and anything you want. With the Gameshark and its codes, you enter the codes once, and the Gameshark saves them so that you do not have to ever type them again. Plus the Gameshark comes with 1000s of codes for 100s of games already preloaded on it! If you get tired of entering codes, then there is something on the back of the shark that lets you hook it into your PC so you can type codes on your PC. The Gameshark includes with a video that shows you how to make your very own codes! Master hackers for games like WWF No Mercy and Star Wars Pod Racer have even made entire new levels and totally changed the game!I just bought the N64 version of the Gameshark and am somewhat satisfied with the results. I own No Mercy, which is plagued by glitches. Gameshark allowed me to gain all that I had lost in the game by unlocking all the secrets. A great peripheral for those who are stuck in a game. Unfortunately there are some glitches. Apparantly some games won't work with it, as my Resident Evil 2 kept locking up when I tried it with Gameshark. Also there are reports of it breaking after a few months of use. All in all a good tool, but buyer beware.The Sega Dreamcast controller is still one of the best designed and assembled game pads that I ever used. In highsight, while awkward and uncomfortable now compared to more recent designs, it was perfectly suited to the Dreamcast's 3D games while still being simple enough for people to easily grasp. It's also generally comfortable to handle for hours, making it a perfect fit for weekend long gaming marathons and is very responsive for standard gaming fare on the Dreamcast. The colorful main buttons are situated on the right side, directly opposite of the analog thumb stick and the D-pad, with the triangle 'Start' button smack dab in the middle, near the bottom. There are also single left and right index finger triggers on the underside of the controller. The overall layout make the controller intuitive and easy to learn, allowing you focus on playing the game. It also features two expansion slots to accommodate a couple of accessories like multiple `Visual Memory Units', and a single `Rumble Pack' or even a microphone, depending on how it's configured. To me, the only strange thing about the overall design of the controller is that the power cord is connected at the bottom, which is a little unorthodox. Luckily it can conveniently be secured in the tradtional forward position on the underside of the unit to accommodate gamers with old school preferences. Unfortunately, like other people have mentioned, the Sega Dreamcast controller it isn't ideal for playing fighting games. The shoulder triggers are simply placed a little to far back and feel a little bit awkward to use effectively, not without throwing a minor hitch in your mechanics in the beginning. Pulling off some of the more complicated moves in Street Fighter consistantly is next to impossible for me. So, the Dreamcast's pad is merely adequate in this particular area and takes a little time to get used to, but it isn't a deal breaker. In it's defence, no standard controller can truly replace a traditional arcade stick in handling the precise, quick and smooth movements, not to mention the 6 dedicated and responsive face buttons that Capcom and SNK brawlers practically demand. Luckily, Agetec released a stick just for the Sega Dreamcast to address these various issues and manages to bring the arcade feeling home; a definite must have for diehards. Overall, I'd still highly recommended this purchase for a person who still enjoys playing games on the best console that Sega ever made; the Dreamcast. After all, it always helps to have an extra controller handy when playing Power Stone 2, Chu Chu Rocket or numerous other classic multi-player titles from the Dreamcast library when friends drop by and are itching to get a piece of the action.The Dreamcast controller is similar to the XBOX controller, the only difference is XBOX has more buttons.  The triggers are pretty much the same, the analog stick is above the d-pad, so if you added Select, Black, and White buttons, and another analog stick, it'd be exactly the same as XBOX.  However, the lack of these in Dreamcast's severely limits gaming possibilities.  For most PS2 games, the right analog stick allows players to rotate the camera around their character.  Without that, if camera controls are needed in a dreamcast game the L and R triggers normally are assigned for that.  This limits the options for useable buttons.  Also, that right analog stick is sorely missed in first person shooter games, which are rare on the Dreamcast to begin with.  The games that are available invariably use the A, B, X, Y buttons for directional movement, and the analog stick for aiming.  So, when compared to Halo, which makes use of those buttons on the xbox controller for reload, jump, switching weapons, and melee attacks, they are incredibly hampered by this.

This controller is great for RPGs, like Skies of Arcadia, fighter games like Soul Calibur, and platform games like Sonic Adventure.  But don't buy Hidden and Dangerous, or Rainbow Six, or even Quake III Arena, because after playing FPS's on XBOX and PS2, shooter games on Dreamcast are really a step down.I don't really have much to say about this controller, except that it's got some cool buttons.  But it looks awkward.  It seems like you could break it on accident if you pull it sideways.I had to write a follow-up review now that about 3 years has passed since my last one, and two sequels to this game have been published.  Despite playing the newer games, I dusted off and fired up my old copy of Jedi Knight/Mystery of the Sith (JK/MOtS) and had a blast.  The two are obviously dated, but don't suffer as much in comparison in terms of game play as the original "Dark Forces" (circa 1994) had in light of JK/MOtS.  Like DF, all the games in the Jedi Knight series are first person shooters.  JK/MOtS added the lightsaber and force powers with an enhanced game engine - besides better graphics and sound, it was now possible to combine moth horizontal and vertical head movements using the mouse (DF had separate buttons for vertical looking, which made the interface feel exceedingly clunky in comparison).  Also, basic movements were more natural - you never had that feeling prevalent in DF that you were a golf cart instead of a person.
But above the improved engine, JK excelled because it was as much a SW experience as it was a game - with a tight story line, excellent level design and filmed FMV cut scenes.  (Most people hated the cut-scenes - poorly acted and not very effects laden - but I loved them; they added to the movie-like feeling and, anyway, "Attack of the Clones" had horrible acting and scenes that went on much longer) You never had that feeling of other shooter games where you suddenly stopped and wondered - OK, where am I, what am I looking for and why am I hitting all of these buttons.  The story returns pro-rebel mercenary Kyle Katarn to the fore.  Learning that his father was killed by an evil dark jedi named Jerec, Kyle sets off on a mission of revenge. Soon he learns more - that Jerec rules an entire faction of imperials intent on locating the lost "Valley of the Jedi" (also featured in "Jedi Outcast").  The burial place of countless jedi, the valley also holds a bottomless reservoir of their force power.  The plot has Kyle tracking a traitorous droid named 8T88 from Nar Shadaa to his father's home planet of Sulon (the droid decodes a map leading to the valley - the map is then destroyed).  Great level design makes each player map seem less a map than a place that must be navigated.  AI suffers in terms of the imperial troops - who prove bad enough before their blasters are force-grabbed away.  Balancing that out, the game is generous with boss modes - sending you up for 5 lightsaber duels with the dark jedi, including the climactic duel with Jerec.  Personally, I hated the saber duels - they always seemed to boil down to hopping and slashing with sabers.  (Jedi Outcast is most improved in that respect - there are much better looking duels, and more of them).  Your force powers are divided between generic powers (speed, jump, sight) and those specific to light (heal, persuasion) or dark (lightning) forces.  Your reliance on dark or light powers (and your ability to keep from killing various innocent by-standers) will determine whether you are a light or dark jedi.  (The consequent difference for one side or another is not that great - mostly it determines which of Jerec's evil jedi you will fight in one of the latter duels, and which cut scenes you'll watch).  Sound and graphics compare well with the newer games, and the overall plot makes you feel like you're in a Star Wars movie.
This edition also comes with "Mysteries of the Sith" - a companion disk that uses a slightly altered game engine and was originally released separately, but otherwise required JK be installed.  In MotS, you play Katarn for the first several missions, then assume the role of Mara Jade, a former imperial agent brought to the light (her character was introduced in the novels of Timothy Zahn).  The tight plotting of the first game is gone - replaced by looser story arcs (as Kyle, you must save a rebel base from an imperial ground assault, then destroy an orbiting asteroid the imperials are using to stage their attack; as Mara, you will infiltrate the palace of Kapa the Hutt and then, in a switch, go to work for him; you will also track down and try to retrieve a jedi holocron and save a rebel corvette from marauding pirates; eventually you will follow Kyle back to a mysterious planet of the Sith where it's dark and swampy, the locals are hostile and hungry, and your weapons don't work).  If uneven, MotS has its share of thrills and challenges.  AI is noticeably improved (with stormtroopers ready to go fisticuffs when their blasters are force-grabbed) and gameplay is much more challenging on the whole.  Should you tire of the levels provided, an entire on-line community has crafted single and multi-player levels for both games.
In short, both games are still great values and enjoyment isn't terribly undermined by your having played Jedi Outcast - though it's obviously not the mind-blowing experience of 1997 (still, it's aged better than the Spice Girls).  If you've got a P4 - it's just an excuse to turn the graphics up to excessive.  I first played this on my P200MMX computer with VoodooII graphics acceleration, and enjoyed every minute.  On my P4, I had no Windows XP problems, and was able to crank graphics to the full.I've always loved the board game version of "Life" - I played it hundreds of times with my family while I was growing up.  The computer game version stuck to the board game as closely as possible.  You spin the wheel exactly like the board game, your little car moves around just like the board game (they even copied the board almost exactly!).
It's pretty fun - I've played it a few dozen times and really enjoyed it.  I wish that when you are generating your character there were a few more options (your character choices are EXTREMELY limited), but that is the only real fault I could find with the game.
The graphics are cartoonish - but it fits!  Whenever you land on a spot, there is a short little clip showing what happened to you - these are pretty funny!  Overall, it's a cute game.  It would be perfectly acceptable for kids too - there is nothing bad in the game at all!  Since its so cheap, I definitely recommend getting it and playing around, especially if you're a fan of the board game!I found the game to be alright. I love the real board game, so the I was pretty excited to play the computer version...But if you are expecting a version exactly like the game, this isn't it.  There are some changes, like  payback and all that. ITs fun to pick your people, and get your house and  all that.  Its cool how it goes through the decades and all that.  If you  liked the game, I think you'll like the board game, but be warned: Like the  game, the mroe people that play, the better.This is a good game for the whole family and friend,I play with my younger  brother all the time and my friends too. This game is very realistic like on  TV,it's has over 2,000 puzzles to solve. This PC version is better then the  N64 version I've play. ENDStar Wars: Rebellion has been around for a while, and with the neverending stream of Star Wars games being released by LucasArts, it is surely being relegated to the backwaters of Star Wars gamers' consciousness. Its graphics aren't as gorgeous as Rogue Squadron or any of its sequels, and its style (real time strategy) may not be as popular as either first-person shooters a la "Bounty Hunter" or even "The Phantom Menace."
Yet to some strategy-gamers like Yours Truly, Rebellion (known in the UK as Star Wars: Supremacy) does have its virtues. While it is a strategy game on a galactic scale, it does combine elements of roleplaying (players can send major Star Wars characters from page and film on missions)and space warfare at the tactical level (once a player has built a few fleet units, they can be sent from their territory into enemy systems to invade planets or engage opposing fleets).
Players can choose to play as either the Empire or the Rebel Alliance, choose the level of difficulty, and the amount of planetary systems that will appear in the Galactic Information Display. The tougher the level, the more systems will gravitate to the oppposite side.  The object of the game, of course, is to control as much of the Star Wars galaxy as one can, with each side having ultimate victory goals that must be achieved.  To be more precise, the Rebels must capture both Darth Vader and the Emperor, while at the same time taking and holding Coruscant.
The Empire's mission is similar but trickier.  Not only are Mon Mothma and Luke Skywalker to be in Imperial custody, but Alliance HQ must be destroyed. But unlike Coruscant, the Rebel HQ complex (it looks like Cloud City) can be moved from one Alliance controlled system to another.  (Those who find the complete Victory conditions to be too hard at first might choose the HQ-only option.)
Things I like about Rebellion:
1. The "main title" sequence. Most good Star Wars games pay homage to their parent media source (the films) by having the "a long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away...." card and the title crawl setting up the game's storyline.  Rebellion is set immediately after Episode IV, so in some ways the game can be used to imagine alternate timelines and different outcomes to those we saw in the movies.  Actual cues from the John Williams scores add that touch of genuine Star Wars atmosphere to this starting screen.
2. The use of characters from books and films.  Although Rebellion shows its age by incorporating worlds and characters mentioned in books published up to 1998, I like the fact that the game designers did not limit the cast of "agents" to just the canon film characters.  Fans of such Expanded Universe characters as Grand Admiral Thrawn, Talon Karrde, Borsk Fey'lya, Labria, and Pellaeon will find them included here.  The one limiting factor is that only a few major characters will have audio cues included in their mission reports (and even those get old fast if you play the game in one sitting), so don't expect to hear the famous Thrawn's musings or Chewbacca's growls.  I also like the fact that certain characters have strong Diplomacy ratings (Leia, Mon Mothma, Piett, Jerjerrod, and of course Vader and the Emperor) that only get better with each mission, while others are better at Combat and Espionage.
3. The graphics. OK. The game is not new and it's showing its age, but those fleet battles are still pretty cool.  They may not be very varied, and at times it's best to just go to the Results screen if you send, say, a Star Destroyer or two against a system defended by one X-Wing squadron....or a Mon Cal cruiser against a single TIE squadron.
What I don't like:
1. It depends too much on mouse clicks. Another reviewer called this game the Death by 1,000 Clicks (or something along those lines).  I have gotten used to this, but getting used to something doesn't mean you have to like it.
2. Team building.  Supposedly, you can make a team of various characters to accomplish missions...or send out decoys to divert the enemy. While fine in theory, either the program is faulty or I am as dense as a Kowakian monkey-lizard.  It did take me several months just to figure out the basic game, even after reading the manual, but geez...I still can't get the Team thing done.
3. Predictability on Easy level. OK. I don't enjoy pain much so I tend to avoid switching levels on PC games, but I have noticed that the Empire never attempts to build a Death Star on Easy level.  It DOES drain resources, and maybe when I play as the Rebels I don't give the AI Empire time to gather raw materials for a battle station, but c'mon...to never try?
For an older game, it is not without its bugs -- it does crash from time to time and some of its features do get annoying, but Rebellion is still entertaining and fun to play.  What more can one ask of a game designed in the late 1990s for Windows 95/98....except maybe a Prequel edition or a revamped Classic Trilogy/EU version with new graphics?Lucas Arts has come out with some notable fiascos over the past few years as far as games are concerned. Force Commander, X-Wing vs. Tie Fighter (which is only good in multiplayer), StarFighter, etc. This is one of thier outings that I actually would rate at 4 1/2 stars and is one of the most misunderstood and underrated games to come out of George Lucas's computer game brainchild.
  The premise is simple. You are given control of either the Empire under Emperor Palpatine or the Rebel Alliance under Mon Mothma. If you start out as the Imperials you'll get a significant advantage in technology and capital ships as well as more developed worlds...plus you have a bonafide Jedi in Darth Vader, who can detect and train Jedi Students as he discovers them, making these officers even more valuable (more on this later). The Rebels start off with 2nd rate capital ships and planets that are far flung for the most part. Thier base is moveable, and under the circumstances that's a good thing since part of the Imperials' goals is to destroy the Rebel base.
  I'll try to simplify this game, but it's not an easy task. Depending upon the size of the galaxy you have picked (Small, Medium, Huge, etc) your goal is to colonize planets and develop them, use diplomacy to introduce other cultures either into the Rebellion or the Empire, or outright conquer enemy planets. These planets can then be equipped with varying tools to make use of thier inherent commodities...for instance one planet might have multiple Shipyards for building your navy, while others might be resource sytems, used only for mining and maintaining your credit flow. Characters in the game each have inherent uses...some can do Ship Research, others can be used for Diplomacy, while others can be sent to Sabotage enemy worlds and ships. If the Character has been detected to be a Force User, then a Jedi Knight or Master can begin to train them, resulting in a Character with increased scores for thier particular specialty. In addition Characters can be places in positions of Authority, either in Fleets or on Planets. Admiral Ackbar can lead one fleet while Lando Calrissian can General it, thus resulting in your fleets doing more damage and taking less hits in battles.
  Research is a lot of fun and can be begun almost from the beginning, in one of three areas. Ship research (New ship designs, fighters, etc), Building design (New Planetary Shields, Improved Shipyards), and Troop Design (Dark Troopers, Sullastan Regiments). Typically whoever has a leg up in Research has an easier time controlling the game and it's highly recommended that if you find any NPC's (Wedge Antilles can do Ship Research, Bevel Lemelisk can do all three types)to start ASAP.
  The part everyone wants to know about though is the gigantic ship battles, and man they can get epic. There's nothing like seeing 100 Rebel ships do battle with the same number of Imperial ones, and engagements can run up to 30 minutes. The graphics of these battles are a little dated by today's standards, but still seeing a Calamari Cruiser turn sideways to exchange broadsides with a Star Destroyer is a sight to see. Fighters swarm around the whole time sniping at enemy fighters or helping engage the big capital ships. There's different options for your ships to maneuver into position for attacks, but as far as I can see they're for the most part pointless as both fleets typically run straight for the other and begin duking it out.
  Single player is fun, but gets dreary after a while, especially if you're playing as the Rebels. The Imperials generally name thier ships at the beginning, but the database for ship names must be shallow because soon after you'll start seeing such inspiring names as "Carrack Cruiser 152" or "Star Destroyer 43". And the most glaring deficiency in Single player mode is that the Imperials will *never* build a Death Star. Ever. Leading me to want to shout "The Death Star plans are not in the main computer"!
  This game becomes sterling in multiplayer though, and if you ever wanted to play a strategy game on an almost epic level, this is definitely a game you want to check out. A human will almost invariably play by different strategies than the computer will, and oftentimes you'll find different and sometimes very unique methods employed for winning. My brother tends to build zillions of fighters on each planet he owns, making capital ship conquest almost impossible to accomplish without matching the number of fighters in your own fleet. My nephew builds heavily into Capital ships with a mixed escort screen, basically heavy on planetary bombardment. I tend to make a mixture of the two aiming for a well rounded task force. And when Turn 5000 hits and you're still grappling for control of the galaxy with your opponent, well let's say that it never wears down on you. If ever you get a chance to build a Death Star, do it. It is an incredible rush to build one secretly, moving it suddenly and unexpectedly into your opponents main manufacturing planets' orbit, and then hitting "Destroy Planet", watching half of his shipbuilding capability go up in a blaze of smoke and rubble.
  Unless you have a LAN at home and know someone who wants to try this gem of a game out, the only place you'll be able to play is on Gamespy and Internet Gaming Zone, but expect games to be *very* long and drawn out, sometimes lasting as much as a week, depending upon how often you have to save and reload.
  The mediocrity of the Single player game is more than made up for in Multiplayer. Trust me and grab a copy and see for yourself :)Anyone ever play Privateer: Armada?  This really reminds me of that allot.  The great sweeping star wars saga has been replaced by nothing more then a third rate game of chess. The special effects are cheesy and the so-called battles take forever.  Save your money and don't buy this one.
If you want a great Star Wars game get X-Wing or X-Wing Alliance.Star Wars fans should be grateful for this game.
This is a 100% strategy game, and even in the galactic battles you need to double think which spaceship to send against which.
The idea of the game is simple... "manage your economic resources wisely as well as your politics and military to gain supremacy over the other side".
You'll need to select destinations for your mines, refineries, development labs, training facilities, etc so as to maximize output and grab the most out of them...
One thing you have to take into account is how changing the game is... in some part you can be lured to assume you'll wipe out your opponent in a couple of turns when you angrily realize he has taken control of 3 or 4 of your planets leaving you with most of your spaceyard or building facilities out!!!
Get enough patience because the game is long and pretty hard to understand, but once the effort's been made it's really worth it!As the other reviewers point out, this is an hillariously addicting little game.  The game works find in the Windows 95/98/ME environment, but I've yet to get it to work in XP (I just use a dual boot system to play this game).Sweet!  I've been around since the original X-Wing, and I'm glad to see the advances!  Remember the original floppy-disk X-Wing for MS-DOS?  The ships were nothing more than  a few single-colored polygons, and the HUD  only showed a picture of the ship, not the actual moving ship.  Plus, you  had 3 ships, well, okay, 4 ships (after the B-wing expansion pack) to pick  from.  The dumb racing track took over ten minutes to go through one lap,  and the missions were close to impossible!  But we didn't mind because that  was the best a computer could offer back then.  Well, not we've got  extremely detailed ships (with moving gun turrents...wow! :) ) with 3D  accelerated graphics, over 15 ships (you use about 8 of them in the real  game, many more in multiplayer) you can fly, and new-fangled light sources!  Plus, you go into the Death Star on this one!  It isn't like that  two-colored gray surface from X-Wing!  Now it's got 16 million colors!  Unfortunately, some of the difficulty from X-Wing moved over to X-Wing  Alliance.  It's just a WEE bit hard.  Some missions will have you laughing  at the enemy, while others will make you slam your computer desk.  Fortunately, you can put it on easy mode (can't do that in X-Wing!).  Plus,  some of the mission objects may seem a bit too much to handle.  But I think  this is only a minor problem.  A few missions stand out...like one where  you jump out of hyperspace directly in front of a Super Star Destroyer!  (for the uninformed, a SSD is a BIG mutha ship that you shouldn't go  NEAR...heck, it's so bad that you'll only see one in the whole game!)  Overall, you'll find a great space combat game in this package.  Go  on...buy it!House of the Dead (the arcade) is the reason I bought a DreamCast. I played it at a local movie theater about 2 months ago and realized and I wanted it at home. I did a little research and found out that not only was a home version out, it was very affordable and a perfect arcade port.
This game is great on the Dream Cast if you have a light gun, if you don't this game is not good. The user interface for the game was designed for a light gun, so if you play with a controller it seems unnatural and you have a desaster almost as big as trying to play Virtual On without the twin sticks. ...
If you do not have the gun, strongly consider buying the "Stringer Light Blaster & House Of The Dead 2 Bundle Pack" by Pelican. ...The controller felt better in the hands than an original N64 controller (only giving it 4 because the thickness of the cord is not really thick).I bought this game so that i can replay my own Dreamcast. The game worked great but i did notice that if you are using a never LCD flat screen, then the laser gun to play the game will not work. You have to use an old tube TV which i happened to have and it all worked great. My brothers and i spent the entire night playing it .I used to play this game in the arcades until my mom would literally drag me out.Good game overall. Its fun and easy but rewarding. The voice overs are so cheesy that its actually funny and enjoyable to listen too. If you have not played this game yet and you enjoy mega man get this game.This controller is very good for what it is. If you need a usb controller for NES, SNES, or Playstation emulation, this is a good one to get. I bought two of them for NES/SNES emulation and I have no major complaints.
This pad comes with a small joystick you can screw into the d-pad which is awkward and you'll never want to use. The only problem is that when you have the stick unscrewed, the center of the d-pad has a threaded metallic hole which can slightly irritate your thumb after a few hours of playing. Despite this minor flaw, while it's not the greatest controller you can buy, at this price it's an excellent value.One of the first games released for the Dreamcast, House of the Dead 2 is an instant classic.  The game is identical to the arcade smash with the inclusion of exclusive Dreamcast levels, and the graphics and detailed zombies will leave your mouth watering.  The voice acting is pretty bad though, making the voice acting from the first Resident Evil look like Shakespearian acting, but that is overlooked by the shoot 'em up action.  A light gun is strongly recommended, but the standard DC controler works just as well, somewhat.The console light gun game is something of a neglected genre. In the case of the Dreamcast, that problem can easily be attributed to Sega wussing out on releasing their own gun peripheral in light of the Columbine massacre. Thankfully, a number of third-party companies were willing to pick up the slack, and, thus, by spending some extra cash, you can play this highly enjoyable frag-a-thon the way it was MEANT to be played.
House of the Dead 2 gets my vote as the best "traditional" (meaning you kill things) light gun game available on a home system (Namco's Point Blank series, I think, has it beat in terms of potential enjoyability, but that's another kettle of fish). It's also one of the hardest. Even on the easiest setting with maximum health and credits, blasting your way through it is no small feat. Most enemies can sustain multiple shots, and dealing with several of them at once while not getting cut or bitten or tackled or whatever will challenge all but the fastest trigger fingers. For even more of a challenge, just try nailing all of those agonizingly evasive bonus items that appear when you shoot barrels, crates, etc.
House of the Dead 2 is not content to force you down the same path every time you play. Depending on how many civillians you rescue, and which ones, you will be sent in different directions within the same stage and the bosses will vary their attacks accordingly, so it's impossible to see everything the game has to offer in one session. Of course, the civillians are typical helpless weenies, begging pathetically for mercy and cowering in corners (one guy even dies from a single kick to the rib cage if you don't save him in time...WIMP!). Their voice acting, as well as that of the heroes and villains, is unsurprisingly weak, but the B-movie quality sort of adds to the feel of the game.
Graphics are mightily impressive, and pretty atmospheric, too; the look of a gloomy European town is captured quite well.
The soundtrack, while not exactly stellar, is certainly passable.
There's also a training mode where you must accomplish tasks like blowing zombies off a moving car. It's nowhere near as fun as the main game because there's really no margin for error, but it's a nice touch nonetheless.
Pointing a gun (plastic or not) at the screen and blasting away is a wonderfully primal, visceral video game experience, and you'd be hard pressed to find a better excuse to do it than this. The high level of difficulty may turn some people off, but for those of us who can only go for so long without shooting something, it's a real treat as well as a great reason to own a Dreamcast.Your gary or james or both and you are off to kill Goldman the one responsible for the 1998 curian case or House of the Dead 1. You will face an endless number of zombies and kill several bosses. Your goal is to stop goldman from destroying all of mankind with his secret weapon which is the final boss of the game. The game is fun for a while but eventually gets very boring. You can play arcade mode or play original. The game bases all on the arcade. You can do training mode which has several shooting events you can do until you get 5 stars on them. All different things are in this game and what ive explained is not all of it.Gory, fun, and entertaining!  Yes, House of the Dead 2 is all that and then some!
The graphics in this game are simply amazing; a perfect resemblance to that of the arcade game.  The animations and textures are used wonderfully.  Gameplay is pretty darn solid, and the replay value is tremendously good, especially if played multiplayer.
Don't listen to those who find this game too "difficult" due to the lack of gun.  All you require is a controller, some skill, and quick reflexes.
I highly recommend this game to all Dreamcasters!I loved this game from the instant that I installed it.
It's funny, imaginative, and actually allows you to ride the rides!
It's far too easy, being aimed toward a younger audience, but that never put me off.  I would reccomend this game to anyone who enjoys the Sim series.
My only disappointment is the lack of updates.  The game is so outdated now that it will no longer run on my PC, because of Windows XP being installed.

I wish that a newer version would be released so that I can play one of my all time favorites again.I will never forget the first time I played this game. A friend of mine had been talking about it for months when I was finally able to borrow a PlayStation and rent a copy of this game. It is really a fun Action RPG with elements of Mega Man, Indiana Jones, and Zelda.A Diamond In The Rough...

I can't believe I forgot to review this!  I've actually had this game for ages, and I even reviewed it's horrible sequel, Jade Cocoon 2, but I somehow forgot to actually write a review for this one.  Well, anyway, I'll get on with it.  Firstly, I should note that if you are a Studio Ghibli fan, this game should feel oddly familiar.  The art style is (from what I understand) either directly inspired by Ghibli - or the art design was actually worked on by Studio Ghibil members (not totally sure which).  The story, too, also feels pretty Ghibli-esque (but more on that later).  The only other thing I'll mention before I get into the category breakdown is that this game strangely comes in one of those double-CD cases, but only actually has one disc.  It's a pretty short game, so I have no idea what's going on with that.  Maybe the marketing department was trying to fool people into thinking the game was longer?  I have no idea...  Oh well, on with the review!

Graphics (score 7/10): The graphics are decent for their time (this game came out a couple years after Final Fantasy VII).  The cutscenes are anime-style, which is lovely because such animation  pretty much never ages.  The in-game background graphics are pretty good - they are quite detailed.  The only problem is that sometimes the backgrounds are too detailed - it can be hard to see items on the ground or to determine what is, and is not, a pathway.  The character models are kind of blocky like you'd expect for an old PS1 game, but there are in-game character portraits during dialogue, which is nice.

Music (score 7/10): The music itself is pretty average for an RPG.  It's decent, but not astoundingly good or anything.  What is of note, though, is the voice acting.  Yes, there is voice acting, which is unusual for a PS1 game.  Not just that, but the voice acting is pretty good.  I've heard better voice acting on more modern games, but for a PS1-era game, it's pretty darn good.  Believe me, I've heard much worse (Grandia comes to mind), so kudos to the developers for hiring some decent voice actors.

Characters (score 8/10):  Sigh, I really like this game, but it commits one of my most disliked offenses - it has a silent protagonist.  Levant never speaks and doesn't possess any sort of personality.  Thankfully, the other characters make up for it since they actually do have personalities.  All the characters have fairly restrained and normal personalities (versus some of the exaggerated and wacky characters you can get with a lot of RPGS), which feels pretty realistic for the setting.  Despite their demure personalities, you really start to feel sympathetic for Levant and his wife Mahbu as the game goes on.  Having an emotional investment in the characters is a hallmark of a good RPG, and Jade Cocoon succeeds on this front.

Story (score 8/10): This game can be described as light on plot but heavy on thematic elements and setting.  It relies more on it's atmosphere and themes to carry the narrative than on plot twists or an intricate storyline.  In fact, the actual plot itself is fairly simple.  A small village that has always been protected from forest monsters suddenly gets attacked one day and several villagers fall into a sleeping-sickness.  It's up to Levant and Mahbu (his newly married wife) to obtain a rare herb from the dangerous forest in order to save them.  Even though that sounds pretty simple, the actual themes are mature and thought-provoking.  Remember in the introduction  how I said this game reminds me of Studio Ghibli's works?  Jade Cocoon reminds me most of Princess Mononoke since they both have a lot of the same themes.  It literally feels like you are playing through a mythological tale or a fable of some type - in fact, the very opening of the game features a creation myth (complete with a frightening capricious deity) before the game sets you up in a more mundane human village.  The cultural setting of the game is radically different from a Western one; the people inhabiting this tiny village are very much bound up in the rigors of tradition and responsibility is put before personal feelings.  It's pretty much the opposite in theme to your typical RPG, which is all about running around the world having exciting adventures.  Instead of that sense of freedom, Jade Cocoon makes you feel the oppressiveness of this cultural tradition and the sad and weighty responsibilities put upon the young protagonists.  In fact, there are a lot of interesting concepts explored in this game, including arranged marriages, superstition and mythology, religion and creation stories, harmony and balance between humans and nature, prejudice, and morality.  The great thing about this game is that it doesn't really answer any of the moral questions it raises for you - it's up to the player to ponder themselves...

Battle System (score 7/10): The battle system is a turn-based system that will be instantly understandable to any person who's got a vested interest in RPGs.  What's different about this game is that Levant is the only character you get to fight with, and he's actually a pretty weak fighter.  You'll spend most of your time summoning monsters to fight for you.  Yes, Jade Cocoon is a bit of a monster-raising sim.  You can capture monsters of various elements (earth, fire, water, wind) to fight in battle for you.  You can also merge two of them together to improve their stats - and their appearance changes!  That's really the biggest selling point of the monster-related gameplay.  Based on what you choose to merge, you can make a monster look however you want it to.  Unfortunately, you'll usually be merging solely for stat boosts or to get certain abilities, which can sometimes produce a very fugly monster.  Still, it's an interesting mechanic to play around with.  My only complaint with the battle system itself is that the battles can feel a bit slow due to slow animations.  Speaking of which, the capturing animations are a bit too long for my taste, and even though the menu has an "off" option, I can't tell any difference between on and off.  Go figure.

Gameplay (score 5/10): This is a bit of a catch-all category for me.  Sigh, this is where this game takes it in the rear-end.  Jade Cocoon has the worst movement system of any RPG I've ever played.  Remember those old tank-like controls that infested early Resident Evil games?  Jade Cocoon has these!  Why?!  Basically, Levant slowly pivots left and right, and pushing "up" goes forward no matter what direction he's facing in.  It's a good thing the battles are turn-based or this would really be a problem.  It is, however, a bit of a problem in the forests because there are on-screen enemies that are very hard to dodge with these controls.  If you hold down the Triangle button Levant will run straight forward.  Once you get used to this you can hold down Triangle and sort of steer him left and right, but it always feels awkward.  In addition to those problems, the actual button layout is irritatingly non-standard.  The Circle button opens the main menu and the Triangle button backs out of the menu.  If you've played many Final Fantasies (as well as many other RPGs), you expect that to be the opposite.  Aside from the button scheme, the actual menus used to do anything are not terribly intuitive and are more convoluted than necessary.  For example, if you go to the shop, first you have to listen to the shopkeeper make random chit chat, then you got to a buy/sell/exit menu, then you can select buy to get something.  Sounds simple enough, but no.  If you select an item, you then have to put in an extra "yes I'm sure" confirmation.  Then when you want to leave the shop, you can't just hit Triangle to back out, you have to select "Exit" and then listen to the shopkeeper give you some farewell chatting.  This problem is especially bad when you are talking to Mahbu (Levant's wife) who basically manages your monsters for you.  Whenever you need to do something with her, there's a bunch of confirmations to jump through.  This isn't a huge deal breaker of a problem, but these little extra confirmations are everywhere and they slow down the gameplay.  It just makes the game feel unpolished and for a monster-raising sim, such a slow management system is unacceptable.  On top of all the things previously mentioned, the gameplay is a bit repetitive in that there's a very simple village-forest, village-forest, village-forest pattern and you don't every get to go anywhere else.  This isn't too bad though because the game is pretty short; so it ends before the repetition drives you mad.  All things considered, what keeps this game from being fantastic are purely all these gameplay issues.

Overall (score 7/10): NOTE this score is not an average; it's my subjective overall score.  It's a real shame that this game is held back by so many gameplay issues; otherwise it would've been excellent.  The whole game really feels like a diamond in the rough.  If you are an RPG enthusiast and can overlook this game's rough edges, then I still suggest you pick up Jade Cocoon.  It's worth a look if only for its unique story and atmosphere.I liked being a Cocoon Master. I liked hearing old legends told by the voice of the old wise man. And I liked a RPG who deals with respect for environment. When I accidentally slayed some minions I really felt sorry. And I had a lot of fun merging those funny little beasts. Buy it, if you are tired of the usal 'fight the evil one' RPG.this shakes so much, at times it seems hard to stay in control of your games.  The design is smaller than what I expected, it has quite a kick, and the strength that it shakes at seems appropriate for what you hit.  it provides that extra oomph that is not provided when you don't have a jump pak or tremor pak or that Mad Catz pak.  It shakes the most when you cause rapid rumbles or when you are hit in a game.  I would have given it 4 and a half stars, but that was not available, so I put it down to 4 stars.  However, this is highly reccomended by meAlmost every Dreamcast game supports the jump pack feature.  This is because the feedback mechanism adds an extra dimension of fun and interactivity to games.  If you are wondering if it is worth the [price] to add this to your controller - yes it is.
My only complaint is that the jump pack should have been built into the original controller.  This feature is near standard in all games and it seems like a crass money grab by Sega to force you to buy a second device.
I have not tried all of the jump pack devices.  However, I have tried the TremorPak and the Dreamcast device.  I can't really tell a difference other than that the TremorPak seems to vibrate a little stronger than the Dreamcast device.  As far as compatibility is concerned, it has worked in all of my games...it has my vote.If you need team-based with a blend of Unreal Tourney and the Sci-Fi Channel, here's a good title to work on. It's all multiplayer, so there's no single-player mode (besides the training missions). It's a hard game to explain, but I can say this: this game is fun and heck and lets you take any role, whether it be a repairman, heavy defence, or transport pilot. Buy this if your computer isn't so hot. If you do have a good computer with a GeForce2, get Tribes 2; it adds on to the first in almost every way and is a little more fun than this title. But get either one, Tribes is one of Sierra's best titles.This was a very chanllenging game for me it. Took me about three months to beat the even old original 64 verison way back in mid 2000 I think it was when back when I was about and was midway through my final and last growth ssuppert. I belive I later when I was about 14  got the newer playstation version. I unfortunatley due to a couple years lack of experience had to use the invulerability and zeeny to comple in a lower completion time of about maybe 10 to 40 hours compared to the original  completer time of about maybe 30 to 80  hours maybe more or less. This game will be fun once you get used to some changes. One megaman like in the later  games of the original series was original drastically increased in size at a huge height of abou 4 to 6 six feet tall and abhout probaly weighs about  130 to maybe 350 pounds witrh his armor on this is the biggest mega man ever made.  Once you learn how to concort the stroneger boss with high atatck strenght and to dog them this may be a piece of cake.  To beat Jungo increas e every thing one the midssle launcher to max this will give you infinite ammo. With this one the ammo update to unlimited if you pay up enough zeeny You cane beat juno easily. Just hold down the button the missle will shot of function like heat seakers. As long as you have infinite health slash cantina points one you can sit there turning your missle into the ultimate automatic fire weapon. Pushbed the out fire down and  keep shooting them of at rapid speed. Even if you get hit you should be able to take this boss down and complety both parts of the battle in about maybe 45 second  20 minutes maybeless. This  is a fun games I hope you enjopy it even though roll is now longer robotic, and Rusha and Beta no longer exist. If you like this and want a really challange to test your patience and enduranc eplay the insanly hard megaman legends 2 also avilable in playstation format.half-life was efficacious in improve my hand-eye coordination which is compromised as a result of using narcotics for three years.  i'd like to find something that will improve my memory, but i've resigned myself to the fact that i'm going to have to re-study everything i've already learned.  yep, oxycodone does make you stupid.  just look at rush limbaugh.
oh - i'm getting sidetracked.  let's not digress.
ok, why did i give it only 4 stars ?
because after the patch to 1.1.1 and then 1.1.2 - the final comprehensive patch - freeman would still get stuck on lifts and elevators and die.
when he gets stuck you can't move him, or make him jump, and he takes damage and gets crunched.  i don't know why the patches never resolved this problem.
but the problem of getting stuck on lifts and elevators has a fix.  read some of the faqs.  if you jiggle the controller around a bit, freeman won't get stuck.
what else ?
every time i tried to load a saved game from the game, it would crash my system.  i had to exit the game, and restart the game i wanted.  i could save without a problem, and quick save and quick load (f6 and f7) worked fine.
the endgame was a little far fetched.  the game was well thought out, but the ending wasn't commensurate with the game.  it was episodic.
aside from the few snafus, yes, it was fun to play.  the health and hev dispenser are somewhat unrealistic.  i mean, getting health from a dispenser ?  only in a game.  but it was fun.
i'm glad i had an opportunity to play it.
and yes, i think it helped my motor skills.My only experience with the game is the solo aspect.  From a solo standpoint the game is probably the best shooter/crawler ever but to linear for me.  I like a more open, sandbox type game.  Half-Life took an already crounded genre, refined and did it better than anybody before or really since.  Flawless game play, easy and intuitive controls and top notch story line.  I think the story was the best part of the game.  Despite my personal views this really is a must have for any pc gamer as it really is the top game in its field.A must-kill for dedicated fans of single-player "first person shooter".  HL takes an utterly unoriginal idea for either games or movies and crafts an utterly unstoppable gaming experience.  You play Gordon Freeman, who works in the bowels of an ultra-secret, underground research facility called "The Black Mesa".  (Having played the game yet I'm still not sure what's supposed to be going on in BM - it's The Aftermath that matters.)  Oozing high-tech, the facility is host to the denizens of another dimension when you/Freeman accidentally...do something that tears a whole in the fabric of our own - allowing beings from that other world to enter ours.

Now, if you think that these otherworldly denizens are peaceful beings intent on fostering cross-dimensional love, or that your fellow human beings will enter the Black Mesa unarmed intent on warmly welcoming these beings to our world, or at least to rescue you - I'm afraid you've picked up the wrong game entirely.  For in the bowels of "Black Mesa" you'll confront howling dog things, flying crabs, alien-zombified versions of your colleagues, gigantic aliens that breathe fire through their fists, aliens that hang from ceilings (and entrap their victims using these vine-looking things) and squads of human special forces troops intent on killing everything that moves - including you.  If the above attracts you because you think it may be the setting that elevates the nobility of the human existence, I should warn you to look elsewhere - for in "Half Life", you'll find yourself acting indiscriminately with a 9mm automatic, a submachine gun, grenades and (most regrettably of all) a nasty crowbar; you'll make few friends and find yourself (for the most part) alone and (not infrequently) exiled to ventilation ducts (again with the ducts!!) to avoid getting shot at by humans, or burned, bitten, bolted or tongue-bathed by aliens.

Complex problem solving skills (as much as marksmanship or bullet-saving) are crucial in this game - in which your enemies have above-average levels of AI.  There are unfortunately times when a level may be hung up by the failure to achieve some specific mission-goal, but this is on the whole a game in which the goals are sufficiently complex to make you feel cool for achieving them, yet not so complex as to be impossible to solve.  The game's settings are fantastic - from the vast to claustrophobic.  The game is long - uncommitted gamers may find it tedious - but the scope of design here rewards those who keep up with it.

I ran this game on an XP-equipped P4, with a 64MB AGP card, and had no problems (other than those involving the evil aliens and homicidal fellow humans).  Graphics and sound were smooth, and I suffered no CTD's.  As with all FPS games, The Rotten Review strenuously endorses the Nostromo Speedpad.Finally, after YEARS of seeing Mega Man in 2D shooter side-scroller gameplay, Capcom began to realize the video game scene was changing, and realism was becoming more important than ever.  So in 1997 Capcom decided to take the classic gameplay of the old Mega Man games and bring Mega Man to an ENTIRE new 3D world.  I finally got to experience the 3D Mega Man adventure a few days ago, in July 2006.  So it took me NINE years to finally play it!  What can I say?  I'm slow!

I have a few problems with certain parts of the game but overall, I'm happy to report that the jump to 3D was a good one (not to mention a NECESSARY one!)  Mega Man spends the entire time in Legends jumping and shooting through a unique 3D environment.

I'm surprised so many people hate the graphics in the game.  They're quite wonderful if you ask me.  Sure, the graphics may be dated because the game is nearly 10 years old (and walking around in Mega Man Legends is sort of like walking around in a giant land of legos) but none of that should matter because you have to take into account the amount of FUN a game provides.  Mega Man Legends provides a LOT of fun.

I really loved one of the very first boss fights in the game where I had to keep running and hiding behind buildings because these giant walking blue, red and yellow machines were throwing bombs and shooting laser beams at me.  The first time I completed this battle it took a good 30 minutes ONLY for a bigger, badder machine to come in and defeat me in seconds.  At first I was angry because the game wouldn't let me SAVE before fighting this fourth boss.  "A half hour of work flushed down the toilet" was the thought that went through my head.

That led me to think the game might be too hard for me to handle, but it turned out I just didn't have the right upgrades for my X-buster equipped (actually I didn't have ANYTHING equipped!) so when I went back to do the battle again I defeated him (her, actually) rather easily.

Most of the enemies throughout the game are rather easy to defeat (including the boss fights).  Many of the boss fights will keep you on your toes, though.  The strategy to defeating many of them is to KEEP RUNNING and only turn around when the moment is right and BLAST them!  The only boss who isn't easy is the very last boss (who sounds like Michael Jackson) because he has TWO forms.  The first form you can figure out with practice, but on the second form he turns into a giant machine and THEN the challenge increases.  But it's possible to find enough money to carry up to 10 Sub-tanks to help you out DRASTICALLY.  If you were to carry 10 Sub-tanks he would be a VERY easy boss!  Despite that, the game provides a nice challenge because the way the story unfolds forces you to do a LOT of things.  You have to go HERE, you have to go THERE!  You have to collect THIS, you have to collect THAT!  You'll find out just how many items and weapons are in the game when you hit the Start button and see everything in your inventory.  It's borderline INSANE.

You see, to help make the game easier, what you have to do is go around searching for things (things located in treasure chests or holes in walls) and then you have to bring the things you collect back to this yellow vehicle where your female friend (or sister, I forget who she is) will be inside.  She can find ways to turn many of the things you collect into important weapons for you to use.  She must be smart!

I think I explained myself correctly, there.  It's kind of confusing because there's so many things you have to collect and that's the main reason I can't give the game a perfect 5-star rating.  TOO MUCH!  In Mega Man Legends you will find SO many weapons and SO many upgrades that it can easily confuse someone (like me) who's normally not exposed to this much activity in a video game.

You have to find a little dancing monkey to save your game.  When you're lost, he can also help you by telling you where to go, unfortunately many times he doesn't provide enough information.  So you can be left wandering around for hours until you finally have no choice but to find a strategy guide on the internet to help you out.

The music in the game is nice.  It's usually played quietly which is odd because most Mega Man music is RIGHT in your face.  If you can actually hear the music, it's pretty much what you'd expect from a Mega Man game.

Listen to those sound effects!!  Sound familiar?  Think South Park!  One of the children (or "pirates") sounds JUST like Butters, and a newswoman who appears later in the game sounds like Kyle's mom!  Some of the animation looks like South Park, too.  When did South Park come out?  1997?  Hmmm, makes you wonder...

Once again, the graphics.  They aren't as bad as I thought they'd be.  Sort of blocky, of course (since this IS Playstation ONE we're talking about here) but I can't bring myself to really hate the graphics because there's a certain mysterious charm about them.  Mega Man Legends LOOKS like a children's game but it's not, really.  Most children wouldn't be able to complete the game because some boss strategies require careful timing and it would be difficult for a child.

The play control... goodness.  It's definitely not easy to figure out at first.  To make Mega Man walk straight, you have to hold down the L and R buttons (this rotates the direction Mega Man is facing) while at the same time you have to use the up, down, left and right buttons to make Mega Man walk forward.  So, because you have to do a lot of running in Mega Man Legends, when an enemy is chasing you and RIGHT behind you, you have to turn around, use the L and R buttons to face him, and THEN hit him.  In the middle of hitting the L and R buttons will probably be the time you take the most hits.  It may take a few hours to properly pull off but you *should* become better at it with practice.

A trick to help you: when an enemy is chasing you, run as far away from him as possible and THEN turn around.  Usually the enemy will be far enough away that you will have time to control Mega Man so he's facing the enemy directly.  Then, simply wait for the enemy to get close and fire away!  I wouldn't blame you if you couldn't figure out the controls- it's not the greatest way to control a character.  I'm not sure if Capcom improved the play control in Mega Man Legends 2.

I find it funny and insulting that when you find a hole in a wall, many times a *very* small amount of money will be located there.  Small enough to not be able to afford ANYTHING.  It's funny because Capcom made it like "wow, you found money!" only to insult you with sofa cushion money.  To find a LOT of money you have to run around shooting enemies.

Just running around shooting enemies and collecting zenny (money) is a lot of fun, not to mention addicting.  A pretty good game worth picking up.To me, Mega Man Legends is one of those games you'll remember years after playing it. The game itself doesn't break any new ground and has its share of flaws, but the overall experience is definitely rewarding.

Mega Man Legends pretty much plays like the earlier Tomb Raider games control wise. Unfortunately, there are a few problems with the control scheme, such as a lock on system that doesn't allow you to move while locked on an enemy (which was fixed in MML2), and the fact you also must contend with moving the camera manually in order to compensate for the lack of a better lock on system to hit your mark.

Legends also uses a pretty similar graphic engine as Tomb Raider as well, complete with all the flat, 2D scenery that rotates with the camera and all the pixilated surfaces and clipping problems that accompanied that era of Playstation gaming. Unlike Tomb Raider, the environments in Mega Man Legends are much brighter and colorful, adding to the games cartoon-like feel, rather than the dark, dank death-trap ridden tombs that Lara Croft raids.

The pretty low difficulty level of the game is also an important factor to look at as well. Considering this game is somewhat geared towards an younger audience, this isn't an error so to speak, but older, more experienced players will fly through the game in a handful of hours (especially considering most of the game bosses can be defeated by constantly circling around them and firing). Thankfully, Capcom added an unlockable difficulty setting to make the game harder for those looking for an additional challenge (oh and is it ever a challenge). Add to this Capcom increased the difficulty on Mega Man Legends 2 a few notches, and all can be forgiven here.

So with all these problems, why is Legends such a good game? Heart, and lots of it. Mix in a good story, a wonderful cast of characters (and enemies), and throw in some of Capcom's more respectable forays in voice acting department, and you got a winner. While some may claim that Legends carries a "kiddy tone", I actually find this to be one of the game's charms and strengths. Honestly, if you don't laugh when one of the Lego Men, err, I mean Servebots messes up and angers Tron, there is something wrong. Seriously, it isn't anymore kiddy than a Mario or Zelda game (or most of Nintendo's gaming library for that matter).

The other thing that makes the Legends series so great is the fact Capcom decided to quit while they were ahead. While I myself still wish they would churn out a Mega Man Legends 3 (considering some of the unresolved issues in Mega Man Legends 2's ending), at least Capcom didn't make a zillion sequels and drain the series of all it's fun and respectability, of which they have done a fine job of doing to the original series and X series.

In the end, Mega Man Legends is not a game you'll remember for amazing graphics, razor-sharp control, or challenging quests. Instead, you'll walk away with a overall memorable experience.Its fun and all but STILL NO COASTER CAM!!!! i wonder why? but the game is still fun. I like the gameplay and i like the fact that it is NOT HARD!!! and the game is not boring. Graphics are goooood and not blockey if you are a roller coaster tycoon fan ther is a web site calld roller coaster tycoon . com and you can look at stuff for the game. And i like the way you make rides the game makes makeing roller coasters fun and makeing your park fun . So by thes fun and NOT hard game now you will love it!!!.What can I say about this game? It was name PC Gamer's game of the year! The game is simply great! At first glance, it seems like your typical first person shooter, but once you start getting into the game, everything changes. It turns into a complete horror game. It's one of those games that if you play at night, will make you want to turn all the lights in the house on. The game gives you huge suprises, like little alien creatures jumping out at you from no where. Or dark corridors with things waiting to kill you on the other side. This game is great, and is perfect for anyones collection!Roller Coaster Tycoon is a game that is focusing on building an entertainment park. You can build your own themed park, rollercoaster, go-kart track, and many more. This game is released years ago and now the price has been dropped. Being low-priced doesn't always mean bad games. I played this game for months a few years ago. It has free mode where you can build your own dream entertainment park. Or you can play in mission mode in which you have to meet the requirements for each level.

The sounds in this game is pretty good, making you feel as if you are in the middle of an entertainment park. You can hear the screaming of people on the roller coaster, the tune of the Merry-go-Round, the noise of the crowd, and so on.

If you have good PCs with great graphic card, you may want to try Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 with 3D graphics with better gameplay, graphics, and sounds.

Overall, this is still a great game and really worthy. With only a few bucks, you can have another entertainment source in your PC for your weekend. :-)For the "Ace combat" initiated, this game is a lot better that the original "Ace Combat" for it's graphics and play, although I have to say how much I enjoyed "Ace Combat" too, in the beginning. Not only have the grapics been improved but the game now includes a scannar that actually tellls you which way the enemy planes are pointing - a must for the correct deployment of missiles. Missions are plentiful and, in addition to the possibility to select a wingman (or, indeed wing"woman" as sexual equality aware NAMCO has included) you can even direct him or her to take on a certain part of the mission, or do the mission without support, as you wish. There are the usual night missions and canyon-runs, and plenty of planes to choose from. Game action is very smooth too. The planes available in the more advanced stages of the missions are great. An enjoyable game!This is a very good game. I used to play this game for hours on end. It's a lot of fun. The best part about it is that you don't need to have a supercomputer to play it. For those of you who's computers can't handle RCT 3, buy this game. Do Not get RCT 2, it's not worth the money to buy a slightly worse carbon copy of a great game.Ever wanted to be a scientist, but never had the aptitude for it? Ever wanted to join the Army or the Marines, but couldn't because you were flat-footed? Well, you can rejoice now, because Half-Life will solve both those problems with one blow. You start off as an intelligent scientist named Gordon Freeman. You work at a place called Black Mesa, which is like Area 51. After an informative train-ride, you get off, have some chit-chat with the guards and get your suit. I was very impressed with how professional the level looked. Security guards, retina scanners, the works. This ain't your local bank. After getting your suit, you go to a room where an experiment is about to take place. You're a crucial part of it. But wait, the scientists are sounding as if something might go wrong. And then you push the specimen into the beam and . . . and shortly after that you'll be experiencing one of the finest moments in video game history. Remember that nice-looking level I was telling you about? Now visualize it with HEAVY damage, dead or dying scientists and guards and aliens popping out of thin air. AND YOU HAVE NO WEAPON! This is no Quake cake-walk with John Wayne heroics. You'll be CRAWLING in FEAR for most of the game.  I think one of the main things that made this game popular was this: It touched on the common fear of going into the unknown and feeling ill-prepared for what lies ahead. Sure, you might have 200 rounds on the MP5, a rocket launcher, and whatever else, but believe me, it won't last long (especially on hard mode).  Another thing that this game touched on was this: The fear of small spidery-creatures and large, ugly, T-Rex things that can run faster than you. Believe me when I say you'll jump when you stick your head in a tunnel and a snark or headcrab jumps out at you. After a while you manage to arm yourself and try and make it to the surface . . . only to find that Marines are attacking Black Mesa in an effort to cover up the severe accident! So now we have this ugly Bermuda Triangle of Marines, Aliens, and You. The Aliens are just plain bad.  You're just trying to get your innocent rear-end out of there. And the Marines are just following orders. Makes for one whopper of a story and a game.  But not all is run-and-gun. MANY times you'll be jumping like Mario, making well-timed decisions, and solving puzzles. But besides all that, there are three other things about this game that I like: 1)A flashlight. It's ABOUT TIME someone did something to light those dark levels. 2)Humor. Guards goof around with experimental technology--with disastrous results. 3)Well-lighted levels overall. The only FPS I've seen with more light is Serious Sam. Very rarely will you be squinting your eyes in this game.  To wrap things up, my favorite levels are the beginning one and the one entitled Surface Tension. Despite some wonderful level design in this game, I really hated the alien levels. Sure, they LOOKED nice, but when you start playing them it's a different story. Also, the two endings are too short and unsatisfactory. But overall this is a GREAT game, worth getting even now (especially if you haven't played it before), despite the fact that Return to Castle Wolfenstein (and other FPS's) are around the corner.This game is will go great with the add ons. But i love this game with Gordon and all the other civilians and scientists and security.... But this game has very cool weapons and very cool monsters. But this game is not reccomended for young users because of major violence and gore. And Multiplayer is a blast. BUT DONT EVER GIVE AWAY YOUR CD KEY IF YOU DO YOU MAY NEVER PLAY HALF LIFE MULTIPLAYER AGIAN! Dont even copy the cd for your friends. But this game has everything i expected with excellent graphics. Everyone will enjoy this game im sure. But 4 stars is my rating because i cant give anything 5 stars unless its AWESOME AND HAS NOTHING WRONG.My first Ace combat game was Electrosphere or number 3 in 98 so 12 years later i decided to give this one a go.  It's a lot of fun, and after you configure your controls to how you like it becomes even better.  Compared to 3, this one is a bit more fast paced, but the graphics are noticeably lower in quality.

The one quarrel I have, though it is a given for all pre 96ish (i think) PlayStation games is you can't use the analog sticks, which i always used in the third AC, and even though it's just a little stick, not having it really takes away from the flying feel.In today's game market it's easy to miss racing games that aren't part of the license-heavy Forza or Gran Turismo franchises. Dirt 3 for PC is in an even worse boat than most since it's been a giveaway for a couple years now with every DX11 compliant ATI video card. As a result a lot of people who get it send it straight to eBay and most people who do play it have not bought it new.

This is a shame because Dirt 3 is a fun little game. There's a great assortment of multinational tracks, and a wide array of classic and modern rally cars to choose from. As a rally game, Dirt 3 ditches the comfortable confines of tracks and sends you headlong across snow and gravel in a world where keeping control of your car is a greater skill than making it around the turns. Dirt 3 wears a veneer of noisy, fun arcade-style game play, but under the hood it calls for quick reactions, a good understanding of road surfaces, and nerves of steel. Sadly, it also calls for a gamepad or wheel- you will almost certainly find the keyboard too all-or-nothing for serious racing.

PROS:
-Visually stunning engine that makes full use of DirectX 11 effects
-Soundtrack is an appealing mix of classic prog rock and modern music that does a good job of being vaguely European and not too intrusive
-Successfully models an arcade-like complexity of play with a surprisingly deep simulation of track conditions and vehicle handling
-In-car camera gives a stomach-churning stream of nonstop thrills as you launch over crests and 2-wheel hairpins
-Probably the most realistic depiction of drifting/powersliding to appear in a video game (it's frightening, nauseating, and usually a bad idea)
-3D support!

CONS:
-Lower difficulties aren't much fun, highest difficulty is brutally hard
-Small fanbase of hardcore racing nuts may make multiplayer a bit hard for newcomers (Dirt 3 players seem pretty nice though)
-Essentially requires some sort of analog input
-May confuse players who aren't familiar with the rules and conditions of rally-style racing

Other thoughts:
-You need to plug your youtube credentials into the game to let it export your highlights to YouTube. I don't think CodeMasters wants to rip you off, but if it makes you uncomfortable, create a new Google identity for use with Dirt 3. Easy!
-LEARN THE TRACKS. Learn the tracks, learn the tracks, learn the tracks.
-If you want to win, employ a Fin!Half-Life is a first person shooter in the same vein as Doom and Quake.  What sets Half-Life apart though, is the more detailed backrounds and more realistic gameplay.  In Quake, you blast everything to pieces and plow your way through the levels.  In Half-Life, you pretty much do the same thing except the backrounds and characters are more interactive...it almost seems like it's part role playing game. The graphics rival those seen on Quake and Unreal, and the story has more back-bone also. Overall, Half-Life provides more of a realistic environment to explore (and destroy) than most other games of it's kind.  If you can't get enough of first person shooters, Half-Life is a great choice for some more action.Ok , just like everyone sez, this IS one of the best games ever made and you SHOULD buy it immediately.  But it does have some flaws.
 First of all, a lot of the weopons in this game i don't like. There is only one machine gun ...only one shotgun ..one pistol , etc.  Cmon, wheres the variety??
Second, the Team Fortress add on that comes with this game really sucks. It is no where near as good as counterstrike.
Anyways,  Buy Half Life and download Counterstrike for free of the net.I have to say that even a long time after it's release, this game still keeps me entertained. The graphics are great, the atmosphere is amazing, the AI is incredible! Altogether one excellent game. There are loads of different puzzles, and there isn't any faffing around with end of level bosses.
There are few downpoints though, even in a game of this standard. The direct x graphics mode is terrible, and the open GL is not compatible with my card, even though open GL works fine with my card in other games. More general pitfalls are that it takes time to get going - there's no way to skip the intro which isn't that relevant to what's going on anyway. The first few levels provide little entertainment. 3/4 of the way through, you get thrown into some alien planet, which almost stops the game dead. It sometimes feels a bit linear as well.
However, enough moans coz the good outwieghs the bad by a long shot. This contains all the elements that SiN should've had.This is a good game and my 11 year old son loves to play it.  This game can be installed on a PC running Windows XP Home Edition and will run fine but you can get better performance if you use the Windows Compatibility Wizard.Boy this is a tough one to write about. How can I fairly review a game  that has resided on my hard drive since the very day it was released? For  the technical minded, Half-Life (H-L) is based on a modified Quake 2  engine, but the modifications simply blow Quake away in almost every  aspect. Valve made an excellent move with this choice. It is well known in  the gaming community that Quake's engine has some of the most stable  networking code in the business. Too bad the video compatibility is a  little odd. For the gamer at heart, this game may have a . . . half life  longer than Quake itself. Valve made a good move allowing the gaming  community to have the WorldCraft level editor and other SDK software. What  this means to the average player is that a simple jaunt to a good web page,  will yield every manner of new levels, characters, and baddies to download  and install to their hearts content. And with Valve's Op-for expansion  pack, this game will take up a large amount of space on a lot of hooked  players' computers.
One of the most notable modifications to Half Life is  the apparently intelligent enemies. Shoot the "dogs" and they'll  run for cover and regroup with their pals. Let the marines see or hear you  and they'll drop a hand grenade on your head. Ninja's don't just run into  you, they jump over your head and land behind you. Crabs pop up at the most  inconvenient times. A well designed level and a poorly designed level is  differentiated by the "intelligence" of the enemies. Although the  modifications are great, they are certainly predictable to an extent. Play  the game enough and you'll eventually spot patterns to the enemies  "thinking".
So of course, after defeating the game forward and  backwards it would be time to test the Quake engine network code. Needless  to say, a 56k modem is NOT recommended. Even though with my experience the  network game play is better than the Unreal engine, the modem does this  game sad justice. Hopping up to anything better than a 56k modem really  makes this game shine. Valve has multi-player levels packed right in with  this game, nice big areas with lots of weapons make this game a fun  "frag-fest". The levels don't have that disgusting  "dark" feel to them. Underground levels have suitable colors and  lighting. Out door levels have an expansive feeling (although no where near  the "out door" feeling that Unreal does so well). Too bad that  H-L has compatibility problems with various video cards.
It's really not  so much compatibility problems it's really more that valve's default  settings for the are usually not the correct settings. (The voodoo video  family suffers the worst from this.) By default the video gamma is far too  bright for the voodoo 2 card. The decals have the incorrect value. Lighting  don't appear correctly. And SLI seems to have an odd effect on the game.  Most cards have their unique set of problems, and all of these adjustments  have to be done at the command level. Not something to be done by the  average gamer.
And this game screams to be played by all gamers. With  many advanced gamers using the enclosed Software Developer's Kit (SDK) and  WorldCraft to make new levels, and in some cases, completely new games.  Valve guaranteed H-L's place in the gaming community. Even if the average  player has no idea how to use the software to create new levels, they can  still go to numerous web sites and download any number of home made levels.  The  Opposing Force expansion pack and the upcoming Gunman game are direct  descendants of users and their Valve's SDK That are purchasable in the  store while hot downloads like They Hunger and D.S.S. Darkstar add free  life to the game.
This leads up to the final gripe with H-L, though not a  major one. I have the Team Fortress Classic (TFC) expansion, the Opposing  Force pack and numerous "user made" levels and my directory  continues to grow. Currently the space taken by H-L and the various packs,  levels, and extras has reached 912 MB of space. In contrast Diablo 2 (Full  installation) is 1.10 GB, while Diablo 1 is only 10.1 MB! The game's are  growing guys and gals, so the PC requirements should be followed like a  bible.
All in all I would have given more than five stars if the system  would have allowed me to do so. But I admit I had to take at least one star  away, I did this to force a point onto most people who wish to own a copy  of H-L. The game can be played right of the box but to get the full effect  of the game, you're going to need to edit the auto start and configuration  files. Voodoo 2 owners used to have the H-L Voodoo Doctor but alas, I have  not seen his web page in months. H-L really does not like the Voodoo card.  ATI Rage Fury does a little better, but you'll get a bizarre  "ghost" on occasion. The TNT family does the best out of the  bunch with the default values. I understand Valve is working on this issue  in H-L 2 (TFC 2?)  but we'll have to wait and see. Congrats Valve, this  game shoved Quake, Quake 2, Unreal, and Duke Nukem 3D permanently off of my  drive. I've since gotten a dual 13 GB drive configuration (26 GB total),  I've never even bothered to dust off those games. With the purchase of  Bungee software by Microsoft (Please God, Don't let Halo and Oni be X-Box  only games.) , the Multi-Player nature of Quake 3, and Duke Nukem (with the  Unreal engine) on a perpetual release date, H-L will be a tough game to  knock off the "Game of the Year" throne. Has H-L cursed the first  person shooter genre? Are developers afraid to knock the king out of the  ring? It may look that way.This game is great.  It has the same basis as Sim City only you control all aspects of an amusement park.  You are given objectives for each level that you must complete in order to unlock more levels.  Once you have completed all the levels, you gain the right to build your own amusement park with no restrictions.  The best part of this game is the fact that you build the rides individually.  You can create your version of the best roller coaster ever, and see if the guests like it as much as you do.  This game does get repetitive after a while though, as every Sim City type game does.I am normally not a real big fan of "sim" type games, so I waited a while to buy this one.  I didn't like it all that much at first, but after picking it up I really got to like it.  This game is very precise and fairly realistic, which makes it hard to learn, but also a lot of fun to play once you have.
The animation and sound in this game are spectacular.  You build all sorts of amusement park attractions for your guests, and then you watch them walk around your park like little ants.  All of the sounds of a theme park are there.  The clickety-clack of the roller coaster chains, the screams of the riders as the coaster plunges down the hill, and the laughs of the children and yes.  The programmers even included the cheesy music that they play for the bumper cars.
Anything that moves can be clicked on and examined.  The level of precision and the amount of choices that you have in this game are fantastic, and sometimes overwhelming.  The game consists of twenty-some scenarios that gradually get harder.  Each time that you finish one, you get a new challenge, which keeps the game from getting too easy as you become more proficient.
The roller coasters have realistic physics.  This is both good and bad.  The good part -- if you are a roller coaster enthusiast, then you will love being able to design a working coaster.  You control everything, from the height of the first drop to the colors of the trains.  The bad part - designing even a mediocre coaster can get very tedious and expensive.  One big coaster will chew up all of your cash, and if you are playing a short scenario, you probably won't be able to build another one.  In addition, coasters take up a lot of space, and because of this, your park usually runs out of it.  I have played almost all of the scenarios, and I have never really gotten to build the "ultimate" mega-coaster.
The one aspect of this game that I found to be annoying was the tendency of kids to get sick from your rides.  This aspect of the game was BADLY overdone (maybe the writers thought it was supposed to be cute).  Even if they don't get sick, a lot of them will be afraid to ride it.  The park customers are total wimps.  You can build a 120-foot tall standup roller coaster with 3 inversions and nobody will ride it, because it is too "intense" (whatever that means).  The roller-coaster physics might be realistic, but the customer behavior definitely is not.  This is one of a few examples of questionable AI in this game.  Still, as a roller-coaster enthusiast, I thoroughly enjoyed this game.This is a great game and remake of the original "Theme Park" made in the early 90's (?).  It is so addicting and time consuming so make sure you've got plenty of time to waste before you sit down to play. (...) It's definitely a great game, although the graphics aren't quite up to snuff with today's technology, but you get over that.  It definitely has challenges, too, so don't think you can just breeze through the scenarios.  A definite buy for your family gamer.works well for me, except i can't get my championships to show at the end. Im not sure if that is a glitch or not.This game is very very good, because it has the real-life thinking, it runs on slow computers, like mine, it doesn't that that much space up, and it's fun too. The only probalm with this game is the money, there isn't any free-for-all levels, which makes it less-addidive, there are lots of things to do, completing parks takes too long, and too hard though. (The money)
There is hunger, Thirst, Happyness, Nausa, and Bathroom, I like to rise the money for bathroom a lot, so people after it hits really high, they have to go. The downside to this game is, even if you make a great park, if your people have to pay everytime they go on a ride, they get broke, and leave, or get mad, trying to find there way out (This happened to me) so just make park enternce 60 dollars, and everything free. (even food) What my 2nd favorite thing to do in the game is, make roller costers that stack on each other, you can make a roller by just ONE land by.... Rising the land first, not too high though, then get a roller coster picked, the put the first roller coster path on the high land you made, and build on! You can make lots of stuff, in a small area! Graphics, ok, this is good, but nothing like what today is, plus, people can get stuck on Water Rides, for no reasons, and it isn't perceft on making a good life like roller coster because parts show on and off, Graphics:4/10 Fun, this game is the MOST addidive game ever! Fun:9.5/10 Gameplay, this can last you, like 100+ hours Gameplay:10/10 Sound, this is a bad thing in the game, like only the sound of kids and roller costers, needs SOUND:5/10 Overall, this game is great, if you like fun games, get this:8/10 which is Great, and 4 stars goes to Roller Coster Tycoon!I have played this game for 1.5 years now. Its great and addictive and is very different from what I have played before. It draws you in as the scenarios get tougher and your will to beat them skyrockets. The gameplay is good, but can lag, and the time in the game moves slow. I feel its a good game to play if your bored and you should buy it and try it yourself. Beware, its addictive.While the game may be outdated and not as fun to play as some of the more recent titles, I can't fault this game because this is where it all started.

On its own merit in 1995, it was a smash-box hit and everybody was ahhed by the graphics, 3d environments, and the musical score. Back then, we were used to Super Mario World and Final Fight. This was something completely different. No one cared about the flaws the game had back then. It was par for the course.

Now, in 2012, a whole 17 years later (really? that long ago...), a person can easily recognize the flaws of gameplay, sound, and playability. Sound effects are lo-fi, almost like comparing a cassette to a CD. The soundtrack is still amazing though, as if it were mapped on an entirely different bit format. Playability, there is one overall mode - the 1P Arcade mode (unless you count options and 2P). Every successful completion of the game with a character unlocks a new character to choose - the same one you fight in round 8. After that, you have all of the characters and there's not much else to do. There's no team battle, no survival, just...1P Arcade. So it works for 1995. The ending movies are pretty bad, all having the same soundtrack and really blocky ugly CGI. Of course in retrospect, this WAS 1995.

The movies never got better in the series until much later, but they did improve some.

Overall, Tekken deserves a place in your PSX collection, right next to 2 and 3. You won't play it often because Tekken 2 covers all of those bases and more. So to me, at least, this game is merely a collection piece.I play on Windows 7, so I've noticed some color problems in the start up and menu screens.  However, once I start playing, it seems to work just fine.  As for game play, lots has been written about that.  I just wanted to mention that it does work on Win 7 systems.  Also, my games save just fine.A game that is addictive and easy to play but hard to conquer.  A game for the agesI wasn't quite sure what to expect when I picked this game up. At first I was struck as to how much it resembles WARCRAFT (ORCS VS. HUMANS). Most of the level advancing, character animation and general game play is almost identical. At then end of the day, the purpose is to beat your enemy by advancing through civilizations and either conquering them, retrieving artifacts or constructing a wonder. The game is addictive, especially at the higher levels. If you can, try the multiplayer versions. There's nothing quite like playing against someone else. There are a few annoying little things. You can lose your people behind buildings and, in some cases, they get lost if sent on a roundabout route to their destinations. However, still a fun game and highly recommended.I bought Rollercoaster Tycoon a long time ago. This game is pretty exciting for anyone who dreams of running their own theme park. You can build from over 14 different rollercoaster plus you can build your own race tracks and alot of other exciting rides. But the fun doesn't end there. You have to put up food stands, bathrooms, trash cans, shops, and some nice scenery to keep your guests happy. You have to build thrilling Rollercoasters for the intense guests but if you build a Rollercoaster that has too much intensity, nobody will ride it. That's the challenging part of the game. But, not all people like Rollercoasters. A lot of people prefer gentler rides such as Go Karts or the Merry-Go-Round. You can also hire Entertainers to help keep your guests happy. When your guests are complaining about how long your line is just pop in an Entertainer right there and it will cheer up the guests and in no time they'll be on the ride. You also must hire Mechanics, Guards, and Custodians to clean up the park and take out the trash! If you don't build good rides and don't have enough scenery and shops then your guests will be unhappy and destroy your benches and trash cans...then you gotta replace them. You can help stop vandalism by hiring a few Guards that patrol the park. So those are just the main reasons why I like this game. You can build about jsut anything you can imagine. So why did I give this game 4 stars? Well, because this game gets very boring after a while. I'm into multiplayer games like Quake 3 Arena or StarCraft. But whenever I come home from a theme park I wish I still had this game. I may even buy it again. Trust me, this game is a hit for all you people who like to be the boss.Well i bought it because i wanted to collect all the tekken games(i did :D) and it brings back alot of memoriesI lost track of my original version but have enjoyed having this one installed to play.  Yes, it's not up to today's graphics or story lines, but it has been fun to go back in time and play this game.ROLLER COASTER TYCOON is a prime example that gameplay will get you a lot longer than shiny graphics ever will. The game may be technically infirior to THEME PARK, but RCT makes up for this with a much more addictive gameplay. In short: RCT is probably the most fun you'll ever have running a theme park on your PC.I've enjoyed StarCraft ever since it came out. I loved it, and even to this day, I enjoy playing it. StarCraft is just one of those games that I've continued playing over the years. It has everything a great game needs: good graphics and sounds, compelling story, well-developed characters, and balanced, interesting units. If you're interested in getting StarCraft 2, but have never played this, do yourself a favor: skip out on StarCraft 2 and buy this instead.

For the most part, I play StarCraft for the single player campaign. Not only is it fun, but the characters actually make you care about them. For me, the characters are the most compelling aspect of the single player campaign.

Gameplay-wise, I can't really say that StarCraft is much of an innovator. Nevertheless, the three races are well balanced and packed with interesting units. There are only two resources, but the resources themselves actually managed to be fairly interesting to me for a while. The single player campaign has well over 40 missions (with StarCraft and BroodWar combined). There are also a few cutscenes for each race.

The voice acting is fantastic. The characters end up being well developed, and like I said before, they make you care about them. The voice actors really made their characters come to life. The unit sounds are also very well done, and are fairly distinct.

As far as video game plots go, StarCraft's is pretty good. There's nothing really amazing in there, but it still manages to be interesting.

The graphics are pretty good; they bring the dark, gritty universe of StarCraft to life.

Good as it is, StarCraft still has its share of problems. For starters, you can only select 12 units at a time. This ends up being fairly irritating, as more often then not, the player will have a large force but will be unable to select all his or her units, which can be a pain if you're in the middle of a large battle. The unit pathing isn't that great, either. The units in StarCraft can't take care of themselves very well. Total Annihilation's pathing is quite a lot better, and you can select more then 12 units at a time.

Those two problems are my only real gripes with StarCraft. The units are interesting, the characters (and voice-acting) are fantastic, and the three races are very well-balanced. There's a reason that StarCraft is one of the most celebrated RTS games of all time; essentially everything about it is almost pure excellence aside from a few issues.The first time I played this game I was amazed by the sheer quality coming out of this game. The grahics were absolutly incredible and the gameplay was out of this world. This was all in 1995. Now that tekken2 and tekken3 had arrived on the scene it seemed as though tekken had faded to a fairyland. Back then in junior school everyone was in conversation about all the characters and the secret ones and how you unlocked them. And know that games like tekken2, tekken3 and soulbade coming to the playstation tekken was suddenly never an issue. All I know is that tekken was a fantastic game at launch and had also beaten virtua fighter on the saturn which was a rival to tekken. If tekken had never come out then I believe with a 100% that none of the existing games that I have mentioned above and their sequals would have been in existance. Despite these games being in existance tekken is still a soulfighter and is the game that made namco famous on the playstation.I like this game a lot.
Is RTS in its most pure state.
Build your economy, set your army, go to seek & destroy!
No crappy heroes to level up!

It runs ok in my old video card a nvidia 7600,
but show some graphics issues in my new nvidia GTX275
in the menu screens but in the gameplay the graphics issues are gone.
So I have to deal with the graphics issues only in the menu screens.

After playing the StarCraft 2 beta, I can assure that Starcraft 1
is better than StarCraft 2. Not just for the LAN support that
Blizzard remove in SC2, the gameplay in SC1 is awesome.

Yeah, SC2 has better graphics than SC1 right; but a game
is about gameplay and not graphics.

Me and my friends still play SC1 in LAN-fests.
This is something we're going to miss in SC2.After defeating Xenogears, I was looking for a game that was fun to play, and didn't require me to do much thinking. Xenogears was a monster game that had a fantastic, yet confusing plot that really made you think. Breath of Fire 3 is a complete change of pace. Instead of going for an engrossing and confusing plot like FF7 and Xenogears, Breath of Fire 3 continues a simple, but fun plot that feels refreshing to play after finishing a monster game like Xenogears.
Breath of Fire 3 doesn't have an overly confusing story. Once long ago, there was a clan on earth known as the dragon clan. After gaining enough power to destroy the world, the dragon clan suddenly disappeared. You play as Ryu, a young boy who suffers from amnesia. He soon befriends two thieves named Rei and Teepo. After he gets into trouble with the authorities, he soon finds out he is an ancestor of the dragon clan. So he embarks on a journey to uncover his mysterious past.
Sound original? Sorry, but if it's originality that you want, you won't find it here. Even the battle system is painfully unoriginal. As you play it, it will feel like you have played something else exactly like it. The story, the battle system, everything feels like it was used many times before, and i hate to say this, but the ending is very disappointing.
However, with all gripes aside, Breath of Fire 3 is a fun and engaging quest. My favorite part of the game was the characters; they are interesting, and very funny. I also liked that the plot never once got confusing. Even though it was unoriginal, it never got off target and it even sometimes kept you on the edge of your seat.
With all the complaints aside, Breath of Fire 3 is fun game to play through. After playing through a monster game like Xenogears, it is refreshing to play. Unfortunately, don't get too excited about the ending.This is a retro game - no way around it.

However, I actually enjoy retro games.  I actually just got done playing Another World and Fallout 1 & 2 on my laptop.

Having been playing alot of Desktop Tower Defense games lately, I thought I would upgrade to a true RTS game.  Starcraft kept coming up high on everyone's favorite list, so I thought I'd give it a try.

The Good:
- This really is a fun game.  I'm only on level 9 (out of 30) on the original, but it's fun.  Level 8 took me about 4 hrs to finally beat.  But some of this is because there's no instructions in the game (see The Bad).  After reading the strategy guide for the level I finally figured out what I needed to do.  However, I had fun playing the whole time without getting discouraged.
- The graphics aren't all that bad.  I was expecting much worse.  Though they're not bad, they're not great either.  About the same as Fallout 1.  I am surprised they haven't been improved by a patch.
- No Easy/Medium/Hard setting.  I actually prefer to NOT have an Easy/Medium/Hard setting.  On some games my first instinct is to pick Medium, but then I will often get stuck or find it's too easy.  And then I wish I had picked something different.  This game, you have to really be strategic.  Some levels may be too easy and some may be pretty darn hard.  If they're hard simply refer to the guide.  Which brings up another point.  you don't have to keep playing a level until you demolish the CPU.  You just need to win.  I tried out Middle Earth RTS and your people carry over.  I got a few levels in and couldn't beat the level.  After hitting a forum, I found out it's impossible to win if you didn't max out your army from the previous levels.

The Bad:
-  Video.  I run this on my laptop and the screen turns black and the game starts in the upper left part of the window consuming only about 25% of my widescreen laptop.  The rest of the screen is black.  It's pefectly playable, but awefully small.  However, I noticed that when I put my laptop in my docking station connected to an external monitor it goes full-screen.  Of course full-screen on a 24" widescreen monitor is not good for this game either.  No amount of tweaking to the shortcut seemed to help.  The only option is to change the desktop resolution to 800x600 before starting the game which is a major pain.  Some Googling and it seems most everyone with a widescreen laptop experiences this.  They all refer to a freeware download that let's you run Starcraft in a window.  This actually works VERY nice, and was surprised at how much I liked it compared to the smaller screen in the upper left.  However, there's comments from some users that after using the program, some people have been banned from Battle. Net since it saw they were using a 3rd party program with Starcraft.  I'm not interested in playing SC on Battle.net so that's not a huge deal for me.  But really, if you're going to actively sell a game at the game shops, you would think this would be fixed by Blizzard.  It's one thing if I found this at a used/discount store, but I didn't.  Also, I'm surprised Blizzard hasn't released a patch to smooth out the graphics a bit.  It's not horrible, but it's hard to imagine that it would be too hard to fix it up a little better with a patch.  Many other games have patches that improve the graphics.  Doom, Quake to name a couple.
- No instructions.  Really.  No instructions.  The strategy guide helps, and the first levels help give you a feel for the game, but really?  No instructions?  This is part of what hurt me on level 8.  I wanted to beat it without having to read the strategy guide.  In the end, the guide told me what units I should have before I attack, and some of them I had never used, let alone knew HOW to use.

End rating:  4 stars.  I'm having fun, and that's what counts for a retro game.  Minus 1 star since I have to use 3rd party freeware to get it to run in a window or proportioned correctly on my laptop.This is a very cool game that has infinite replayability. One cool feature that this has is you can click one any person in your park and can see their status, if they like your park, and where they have been. The best part in this game is obvious, you get to build your own amusement park! For people who love roller coasters, you must get this game! The Short Version: Graphics: 3.5 Sound: 4.1 Control:4.5 Fun Factor: 4.8 Total: 4.3This game wasn't very challenging, but fun nevertheless.  The idea is to build a roller coaster park, which may also include thrill rides, gentle rides, and water rides.  The people, whom you can see in your park even as you build, roam your park.  You can spy on each one's thoughts.  You need to keep them from getting thirsty or hungry and provide bathrooms.  You need to make sure they don't vomit often and clean it up when they do.  You can build any roller coaster yourself, or choose from preset designs.  Building roller coasters is a bit of a challenge, since it can be hard to connect the end to the beginning, but they can fit the given space more easily than preset ones.  It's important to balance your budget and keep track of prices.  This game is easy to win, but takes a long time to play.  I recommend this for anyone who wants a laid back simulation and for people who want to build the ultimate roller coaster.This is the first "Gabriel Knight" game that I've played, and I'm definitely looking forward to playing more games in the series. "GKIII: Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned" had its moments of brilliance.
The characters were well developed, with distinct personalities. The voice acting, however, ranged from decent to shame-on-you bad. Case in point: Tim Curry as Gabe Knight. His accent seemed to shift wildly from Southern to...something unidentified. Hall of shame nominee: Scottish thugs proclaiming: "We're Scots, God help ye!".
The graphics were generally detailed, but pixellated. 3D models had a tendency to cut in and out of the screen.
There were plenty of places to explore in the chateau, museum, church, and town of Rennes-le-Chateau, and in the surrounding countryside. The puzzles were often difficult, and I frequently found myself backtracking for missed items. Also, there is a lot of downtime in some of the timeblocks so I found myself wandering around for a while trying to kill time.
The storyline was genuinely unlike anything I've ever played before. Although the initial premise is that of a vampire cult kidnapping a child, the ending drastically reinvented the story of Jesus, which is sure to offend many. I *still* don't understand half of the cutscenes and ending months after playing it.
There was a lot of dialogue to sort through, and many locations that I had to backtrack through, so this game kept me busy for quite a long time. "GKIII" is not for everyone's tastes, hence the M rating. It deals with vampirism and a reinvention of the death of Jesus. It was definitely thought provoking and entertaining, and if you're a fan of mystery and the supernatural then "Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned" is worth a look.I finally got around to playing the entire Gabriel Knight series. For the rest of you who haven't, you're missing out. These are positively the best 3rd person adventure games ever made.
It's hard to review GK3 on its own merits without comparing it to GK1 and GK2. First off, going directly from GK2 to GK3 was a shock, as the former is done entirely in FMV and the latter used 3-d CG technology. When GK3 was made, this was fairly new and not as polished as it is today. The environments are well done, but I had a hard time with the characters. They didn't look quite right, and a lot of their movements were stylized and unrealistic. I got used to this as the game progressed. However, I still find that I relate better to 2-D characters (as in _The Longest Journey_ or GK1) than I do to 3-D representations that are trying so hard to be human and not quite making it.
The script and voice acting were often not quite what I had come to expect. I particularly was not fond of Tim Curry's portrayal of the title character, a fact which struck me as odd, as I loved his work as Gabriel in GK1. But in GK3 I thought he had a little too much tendancy to go over the top, particularly with Gabriel's wisecracks, which sometimes seemed more suited to Beavis and Butthead. Gabriel as a character grows and changes a lot over the course of the games, and I don't think Curry's portrayal was true to that fact. I was also puzzled and irritated at Gabriel's sudden inability to pronounce French. He had a beautiful accent when French terms came up in GK1; what happened to it? Whether this was due to the actor or the director, it was a poor choice and it bothered me.
However, Gabriel Knight 3 is still a great game. Like the others in the series, it is quite long and takes a lot of thought and a lot of close attention to detail. I liked that the NPC's had lives of their own and moved through the game in ways that were unpredictable. By keeping close track of them, sometimes stumbling on interactions and conversations, you can get a much larger picture of what's going on. I thought this added a lot to the realism of the game. You don't have to see everything to complete the game, but attempting to do so both makes the game last longer and makes it very replayable.
Every Gabriel Knight game pushes the limits of the genre by utilizing special interfaces. In Gabriel Knight 3 the special interface is a computer within the game. In addition to being vital to solving one of the main puzzles, this internal computer offers a wealth of information on a variety of subjects. You can spend hours just searching the database and reading the entires. I thought this was very cool.
The puzzles in GK3 are generally a mix of standard inventory-based, timed activity, and arcade.  Often you have to wander around a lot to figure out what you need to do next.  One particular puzzle stands out as one of the best thought-out and most complex puzzles I've ever come across in gaming.  In it you must solve a riddle by analyzing and linking various inventory items.  It's a very long puzzle and some people might find it frustrating, but it was the thing that really caught and held my interest. If all I have to do is talk to people and find inventory items, I don't feel like I've really done anything. There's plenty of that in GK3, but you also have to stretch your brain.
I really enjoyed John DeLancie's performance as the villain. I also enjoyed the depth of interaction between the main characters, and I am very impressed with the amount of research into esoterica that Jane Jensen put into this and the other games in the series. If you are at all of a mystic bent, or have any interest in what might be termed the occult, you will like this game.
You can play GK3 without playing the other games in the series, but I think it wouldn't be as enjoyable, as the background information gives so much insight into the characters and their relationships. Still, if you're looking for a great story and challenging puzzles, don't pass up Gabriel Knight 3!I had seen this game sitting on the shelves of software stores for months.  When the price finally lowered I decided to buy it.  It was well worth my money.  The game is absolutely stunning.
The first thing to note is the graphics.  The textures aren't really that detailed, but that doesn't stop them from preforming.  The scenery is absolutely beautiful.  Playing the game makes me want to visit Rennes le Chateau for real.
The next good thing is the soundtrack.  It is perfect.  Every scene has a unique track.  Sometimes I have the character just stand around doing nothing so I can enjoy the music.
Lastly the story is fabulous.  It has some great supernatural influence, as well as classic detective work.
I take away one star because some of the puzzles can be ridiculously difficult expecially if you don't understand what you're supposed to be doing, but don't let that stop you.  If you really need to you can always find a walkthru.I have to admit that my copy of Gabriel Knight 3 sat on my shelf for over a year before I felt like playing it all the way through.  This was because I did not like the 3-D graphics this time around; after all, some of the "movies" on Gabriel Knight 2 were superb and you just can't get that with 3-D.  I still don't like the 3-D graphics, but once I started playing this game seriously I was hooked again.  The historical background stuff is always fascinating to me and any game in which a tube of Preparation H plays a part is always going to impress me.  I hate to think what sort of individual could play this game without resorting to hints and cheats, although they would have to be somebody with a lot more time on their hands than I am.  There is always some point where I need some help finding out what I missed out on that prevents me from advancing to the next time block (I didn't pick up the glass in the hallway and now I can't listen in on conversations going on in the rooms.  Sigh).  I like Tim Curry as much as the next person, but it doesn't sound like him so his return is not a big deal for me (I liked the guy in GK2).  What's more important here is the wry sense of humor: Can't get somebody to talk?  Try the gun icon, see what happens.  I have to assume most people who play "Blood of the Sacred, Blood of the Damned" come to the game through one if not both of the first two Gabriel Knight adventures.  In that case I certainly do not think you will be more than mildly disappointed with episode 3.
I hear than this particular type of computer game, the Gabriel Knight/Phantasmagoria type, is on its way out because it takes too long to put together and does not sell as well as the bloodier arcade type games.  That is not good news, because these are the only type I play.  After I finish I'm going to have to go back and play again and try out some of the variations.  Note: It can be very useful to save the game at different points and go back and do some variations.  Getting caught snooping around can be also be fun.  Bottom Line: For most of Gabriel Knight 2 with its Wagner and Werewolves has been the highpoint of the series to date.  But I am more than willing to give anything Jane Jensen wants to do a try.This game is one of the best out there. You don't need a supercomputer. In fact this is one game where the requierments will let it run just fine. Pros: very addictive, fun, realistic, low requierments. Cons: very easy, time consuming(there are time limits, but you need to wait until the time expiers-very annoying). Overall this game is well worth the money, expesaly if you buy loopy landscapes (the expainsion)The third in the mystery-solving series, GKIII not only improves on the series but on the genre itself!
For those who enjoy games that involve more thinking and amazing storylines, this game is definate buy. It was the first Gabriel Knight game I had ever played, and when I was finished I wanted more. The plot alone is so deep and enriching that you'll want to play just to see what happens next.
My only problem involved the difficulty of some of the puzzles. It's not that they were too hard, but that they seemed a little ridiculous. Some seemed to beg for the purchase of a walkthrough, and I admit I did some "walkthrough" searches on the net, but it was worth it to see the ending.
I thought the graphics were great, especially the detailed scenery which is an almost exact duplicate of the real French town of Rennes-Les-Chateau. One of the high points in the game was Robert Holmes soundtrack, which relied mostly on creepy, atmospheric piano pieces. It really added to the experiance.
Anyone who enjoys puzzle-based suspense games should give this one a try... ... it's more than worth it.Gabriel Knight 3 (GK3) is a challenging and entertaining game that is both aesthetically and technically pleasing, proving to be an all round triumph by game designer Jane Jenson and Sierra Studios. The player is immersed in a compelling, convoluted murder-mystery in a remote French village, gets to play as two characters and gradually unravels a complicated web of mysteries, suspects and, the key ingredient, vampires. The aforementioned aspects of GK3 make this 50-hour, 3 CD extravaganza a true delight to play; however, one may find that the plot is a little too complicated, which proves detrimental to the pace of the game.
  The player assumes the roles of Gabriel Knight and Grace Nakimura, both private investigators, in a small village called Rennes-Le-Chateau. The village is steeped in history due it being the suspected locality of the Holy Grail. Gabriel has been assigned a mission by Prince James, a wealthy businessman, whose son had been kidnapped whilst in the vicinity of the area. As Gabriel gradually uncovers more about the mystery of the kidnapped child, he concomitantly delves into a turbulent, violent world of treasure hunting, vampires, religion, riddles, shady characters and murder. It is a real pleasure to witness this fantastic story unfold, despite it being rather slow in unraveling.
  The marvelous, although slow moving, plot is incorporated into a fully interactive, 3D environment, which the player is able to investigate thoroughly due to a camera that is able to be manipulated. The player can move the camera around much like the camera in a 1st person shooter, allowing investigation of intricate spots such as under a desk or inside a dumb waiter shaft. What makes this locale-investigation so delightful is that each of the environments looks absolutely gorgeous, barring the occasional obviously 2-D tree or clearly polygonal hill.
  The sound is pretty good: the character(s) can eavesdrop on conversations and engage in conversations with striking clarity, to name but a few features. Although the voices come out crystal clear, the actual sound of the voices is quite terrible. Tim Curry (of Rocky Horror fame) is the voice of Gabriel Knight, and his feigned southern drawl quickly becomes irritating. Grace's voice is average, as are some of the other characters, and the script can sometimes be quite terrible. None of the characters, despite how life-threatening the predicament, seem to realise just how endangered they are. Gabriel even goes so far as to wisecrack when a razor-sharp pendulum is about to chop his head off.
  But despite the minor problems with voices or a rather sluggish plot, GK3's good points far outweigh the bad. It is full of challenging problems and provides hours of great fun and excitement, which is exactly what a game should do. GK3 amalgamates innovation with traditional murder-mystery storytelling, so if you're looking for an adventure game triumph, then look no further than Gabriel Knight 3: it's a real winner.All of the reviews I've read seem to come from longtime players of this game rather then new players who actually bought the Battlechest. One of the first things you need to know about this addition that there is NO MANUAL. I was pretty surprised to discover this. But wait, you say, there are two official strategy guides. Yes there are. But they won't teach you how to play the game. They don't include basic stats on all of the units; they don't include all short cut commands; they don't include technology trees; they don't explain the concept of real time strategy games. They offers hints, observations and walk throughs of all of the missions which are handy, but not a substitute for a manual. The only help the game itself offers is a list of some of the keyboard short cuts, hints and one training mission which will be of little use unless you are familiar with real time strategy games.
I've recently discovered and fallen in love with real time strategy games and having recently begun playing Age of the Empires II and Empire Earth, I found the basic concepts similar and could figure you out in general what I was supposed to do. But I found myself struggling to understand the specifics of the game and how to best use the units to win the missions, with such incomplete information. Fortunately at battlenet.com, the official StarCraft website, I discovered extensive documentation. Still it's hardly as convenient as having a manual to refer to while playing.
Armed with a link to the battlenet documentation, I have played through half of the Terran Missions and have found them to be very entertaining. The missions are varied and gradually introduce you to new units and concepts. Hints are offered along the way. So far that are quite easy (once you actually understand what the units do) but for completely mastery of the game there is a huge amount of information to learn. Even though the graphics are not as snazzy as newer releases the attention to detail is outstanding. The cut scenes are excellent and the storyline is far more involved then other similar games. There is an amazing amount of strategic possibilities in this game.
In addition to the missions there are a bunches of ready made scenarios and maps in the Custom Scenario section ready to play. I suspect these were not in the original version, but since I don't have any documentation, I can't say for sure.
So if you have played more recent titles and are wondering if this will seem dated, rest assured that on the fun factor scale it compares very favorably to newer titles. But if you have never played this type of game, you may want to consider another title first unless you have a friend to help you out or are willing to invest the time needed to figure it out on your own.The first Gabriel Knight game was about a voodoo cult in New Orleans, the second was about a werewolf murder in Germany, and the third is about  vampires.  In this episode Gabriel sets out to solve the abduction of a  man's child and crack the mystery behind an age old Vampire cult.
The  pros of the game are the graphics and controls.  It's really great to be  able to pike the camera at whatever angle you want and examine things.  Everything is rendered so the screen is more than just a backdrop that you  can't peek behind.  Almost everything is something you can examine  closer.
The puzzles are also logical.  They make sence instead of being  wild things like ripping the leaves off a plant and combing them with a  rubber duckie or some other hair-brained idea.  I also loved the animation.  For polygon rendered people and buildings they were impressively  handled.
There were only two things about this game that I have any sort  of beef with.  Firstly the character of Gabriel seemed to have lost a bit  of his tact and charm.  In the first game Gabriel could charm the pants off  of just about anyone he met and could smooth talk his way just about  anywhere he pleased.  Although the voice actor was the same man as the  first GK game he seems to have forgoten Gabriel's smooth cajun accent for a  horribly sounding southern drawl.
And also the game didn't seem to like  my ATI graphics card, so although I had the game for a couple of months I  wasn't able to play it until I upgraded my card to something else.
But  that aside, I'd still reccomend it to any adventure game fan in a  heartbeat!I heard that this game had garnered a good reputation, but until now it had never piqued my interest. There are so many games in the real-time strategy genre - you have classics like Age of Empires 2 and Command &  Conquer, or total stinkers like Tiberian Sun.
It's important to remember  that Starcraft was created at least two years before Age of Empires 2. It's  obvious that AOE2 borrowed some good ideas from Starcraft. The main one  being those of unit limits. In Starcraft you have a 200 unit limit, so it's  still possible to build a huge army. But you also have to balance that  against the number of units you use to gather resources.
Another unique  feature of Starcraft is the totally different sides. It absolutely amazes  me that a single game can have such diverse armies and yet still manage to  be so well balanced. There isn't a single unit in the game that can't be  neutralised by another unit - which is no mean feat, considering how  powerful they are.
The most interesting aspect to these units are their  special abilities. Certain units in each race have special attacks they can  use to neutralise or destroy an opponent. For instance, the Terran Ghost  soldier can fire an EMP blast that can knock out mechanical units. Zerg  queens can fire parasites, which attach themselves to enemies, allowing you  to see whatever that unit sees. The Protoss have the Templar, a unit that  uses a chain lightning `psionic storm' to eliminate whole squadrons of  units.
There are certain features which I wish had been implemented. It's  not possible to control the behaviour of your units (ie. setting them to  guard or defensive mode, etc...). This makes it entirely possible for your  entire massed army to chase after a single unit, when really you want them  to stay in one place. Fortunately, a `hold' command is provided, but I  still would've preferred to give my units more advanced commands.
The  other annoying aspect is map size. It's blindingly obvious that the maps  are too small when compared to the size of the units. Try leading a group  through a narrow canyon - because there is so little room individual units  will often take a different path to get to a destination.
Starcraft's  other strength is in it's storyline. I have never seen such powerfully  realized characters like this in a computer game. In truth, there are no  real good guys or bad guys in this game. Everybody has their own  motivations for their actions. The sequential compaign design only  strengthens this aspect. It's unfortunate that Tiberian Sun's Michael Biehn  and James Earl Jones didn't have a script like this to play with.
In  conclusion, Starcraft is everything that Command & Conquer: Tiberian  Sun wasn't. It has the best designed units of any strategy game. It has a  strong storyline which is beautifully realised in the single-player  missions. And the addition of StarEdit means you can create your own  missions once you tire of the Blizzard approved ones. No wonder why this  game has stood the test of time. However, the omission of advanced unit  controls mean I have to deduct one star.You know, when i first saw this i thought it looked like Sim City, which i think is a ok game but it gets so boring and after a while it gets dumb. But I went over to my neighbor's house and saw Roller Coaster Tycoon for  the first time. Its awesome. I'm Going to probably have to force myself to  stop playing it though because its so addicting. You just always want to  add more on to your park and get more guests. In the game your given  levels. Each level has a challenge. They give you a certain amount of  money, (sometimes you can add on loans), and a certain amount of time to  get so many guests and have a certain rating for your park. In the ride  department you can choose from either pre-packaged things or build your own  roller coaster's, trains, monorails, log flumes, and more. You can also add  restaurants and mostly anything you can have in a theme park. Also, if you  keep a level for a certain amount of time you get more attractions and  rides and restaurants. The roller coasters range from regular wooden, to  steel, to one support steel, and any roller coaster you can think of, its  awesome. It may be a strategy game, But its better than any shooter or RPG  that i've ever played. BUY IT!I was so excited about this game that I played it for 15 hours straight... and completede it. The game is great and tons of fun, but it's just to easy. The enemy AI is too predictable, and it's all too easy to win the  battles. But if you want the greatst grafics ever on a PC, buy this game.A Game that is still in my library with its sequel..  Yeah I like it that much, found it addictive and imaginative as well.  It is date by today's standards and likely the online play is dead as it was when I attempted to play there.  Not to mention those out there playing online are usually hardcore and own any new people as well which was a major frustration when I finished first person a long time ago and attempted to go online haha.  This game was fun with its story and is one I consider reloading at times after so many disappointments with newer games that just don't satisfy someone who has played for so many years nor someone who wants to spend so much for so little these days.  Today's game are pretty much knock offs, level racing, mindless hack and slash, limited originality, limited character uniqueness and profit versus gamer motivated today as well.  If you want to give it a try I'd say it is worth the ten bucks..  If you really like it the sequel is good as well.  Space Command and Conquer is a good way to think of this game with a mobile mother ship for game play though it is more multi-directional that c and c..  Control might take a little to get use to but who expects a game to practically play itself lol..This game got me interested in the RTS genre all over again. It is  wonderful: full three dimensions of movement, a camera that's easy to use,  beautifully-rendered ships and an engrossing storyline. The only strikes  against it, in my view, are the near-identical ships of the playable races,  and the lack of variety in Homeworld multiplayer missions.
Still, this  game is the first of the 3D RTS genre (or at least, the first to do it with  any real style) and the yardstick by which all future comers will be  measured - it's still a wonderful game.Breath of Fire III arrives almost three years after the fun-but strictly orthodox-Super NES title, Breath of Fire II. Although BOFIII isn't a radical departure from the earlier games in the series, don't let that turn you off; it's reassuring to see that sprite graphics haven't given way entirely to origami-style polygons. Sporting a quasi-medieval European setting, a heroic story line, and turn-based battles, BOFIII will appeal to fans of Square's Final Fantasy series and Working Designs' Lunar titles. An Epic Journey Breath of Fire III starts with the discovery of a tiny dragon that goes on a deadly rampage before it's captured. The dragon escapes and is transformed into a young boy named Ryu, who is befriended by a pair of delinquents, whose thoughtless pranks get them captured by some truly evil people. Ryu is left for dead, but his dragon powers revive him, so he sets off in pursuit of his friends' captors, unaware that he's about to be drawn into an ever-deepening pool of danger, deceit, and death. Like earlier BOF titles, Ryu can befriend several partners during his epic journey. Nina, the princess of Windia, makes another appearance in the series, although in this game she's apparently unrelated to her earlier incarnations. Ryu, too, shares the name of a character from the series, but he's also unrelated. However, Gobi, from the first BOF game, makes a cameo appearance. Nostalgic Graphics Graphically, BOFIII is leaps and bounds ahead of its predecessors. Texture-mapped polygons are used to create the backgrounds, terrain, and buildings, while sprites are used to compose the various characters. More animation, colors, and special effects have been added to this version, but the look of the game will still be familiar to fans of the BOF games. The three-quarter-overhead view field map can be rotated somewhat so you can peek behind obstacles, but not to any great extent. Battles are fought directly on the field map, with characters and monsters displayed diagonally in one of four directions: Two are seen from the front and two from the rear.
Solid Craftsmanship The battle system is turn-based, with some consideration given to quickness: Characters move in sequence to their speed parameter. For example, in some battles you may want to use light armor so that your character moves quicker instead of heavy armor which can slow you down. Also, certain characters have speed parameters higher than their enemies and may get extra turns while fighting. Beyond the usual manual, magic, and item attacks, characters can transform into dragons. Initially, only Ryu has the power to transform (and only when he's far into the game), but the other characters gain that power later. Transformation, though, requires crystals called Dragon Genes and AP (magic points) for the Genes chosen. By combining up to three Genes, different dragons can be created; the more Genes you use, the more powerful your dragon, though you'll use more AP. AP is also consumed at a constant pace while the dragon is in battle. Finally, you can learn monster skills for special attacks and spells. The construction of Breath Of Fire III's battle system-and of the whole game, for that matter-is very polished-thanks to excellent controls. You won't be moaning about the way this game handles. Sound Bites However, all isn't well in BOFIII. The sound effects are fine, if not particularly inspired. In battle, the characters emit rudimentary shouts, screams, and spell names, but not much more. And even though the sounds can get annoying, they're not anywhere near as badly done as the soundtrack. The music veers widely from unmemorable electronica to hopeless schmaltz, and more often than not, it doesn't add to the atmosphere of the story. The music seems more appropriate for a corporate infomercial than a heroic fantasy RPG. Aside from the inexplicably bad soundtrack, BOFIII is worth a long look from RPG fans. Although it doesn't possess the visual and aural magnificence of Final Fantasy VII (which few games will ever accomplish), Breath of Fire III holds up as a very enjoyable RPG in which sure craftsmanship is easily evident.When I first started playing this game, I was awestruck by the amazing graphics.  I installed it, everything ran smoothly, and even though the tutorial level was extremely long, I didn't tire of it simply because  everything was so impressive looking, even at the meager 640x480 res I  started at.
I played the campaign next, and although it was pretty cool  that you had the same resources and ships from level to level, the levels  themselves were extremely easy (I know that because I suck at RTS games and  I didn't have to reload once on this one).  It also was boring having to  collect every last scrap of resources at the end of the levels in order to  support your fleet through the next threat.
Even through all of this, I  thought it was a very fun, addictive, game, but when I started playing  multiplayer it dawned on me where this game really lacks -- there's not  enough variety.  The ships aren't varied enough, and even though it's 3D,  there's only one terrain type -- space.  There's just not enough variety  for it not to get boring after too long.
So even with the stunning  graphics, compelling music, and simple but effective cutscenes, the  un-intuitive gameplay and the sameness of it all brought this still very  good game down to only 4 stars.I'm not an RTS (real time strategy) fanatic by any stretch of the imagination -- but I was eager for this game.  This game plays extremely well as a single player game -- complete with new twists to the real-time  genre: no buildings, you keep your fleet with you from scenario to  scenario, full 3D space (with intuitive controls).
Homeworld takes the  basic tenants of a real time strategy and slows the pace down a bit to  provide fleet action that reminds you of scenes from your favorite sci-fi  movies and TV shows.
The story is extremely well done with scripted  in-game sequences and good storyboard artwork that makes the story  compelling and interesting rather than "fluff" added at the  end.
It's a solid multiplayer game - but only against other humans.  Much  like Total Annhilation, the AI simply isn't up to the task of taking on  multiple, allied humans, even if you give it the benefit of  numbers.
Overall - it's a great game. If the multiplayer AI were more  vicious you'd see 5 stars from me.This game is great. Even though it is pretty old, it is still a super sick game to play. Fun and challenging. and if it's too hard you can use cheats to help you. Good fun.With the genre monopolized by the the Final Fantasy series, it is not suprising that this game is absent from most people's top RPG list. To clarify, it is not as good as an FF game, but it is nonetheless enjoyable and fun.
The story is pretty linear, the characters are well developed, and part III offers much of the same fun that was the original BOF for the SNES (which was produced by Squaresoft, not Capcom). The only drawback is the clunky controls, which can be frustrating when you are trying to move down stairs or bend around tight corners. And while the graphics are not on par with Final Fantasy IX or Chrono Cross, this is still a great looking game.
Try it. I think you will like it.Just so you know, I am only going to discuss single-player version because I never tried multi-player.
You have Warcraft, you have Diablo, and then you have Starcraft.  Diablo and Warcraft have gone off to have #2 (and in Warcraft's case, #3) but Starcraft has nothing but a Brood War expansion.  I can't see why.
Starcraft is fantastic.  You have three different races that are unique in their own way.  Different buildings, different units, different ways of evolving... heck, just about everything is different between each race.  I think that is pretty cool.
I, personally, like the custom scenarios.  I also like a really cool scenario that is kind of like a arcade game where you try to protect your nexus (protoss main building) from oncoming enemies.  and get 'galactic heroes' if you survive.
I found the actual campaign a bit too difficult for me, with some missions seeming just plain impossible.  It also takes a while to master each race (I like the protoss, but the Zerg are, in my opinion, the easiest to fight with)  But it is still fun and I really like some of the heroes, especially the Protoss heroes.
Finally, I like making my own scenarios.  It seemed difficult and a little confusing at first, but I eventually got the hang of it.
Go out and buy this game!If you are a World War II buff and love flight simulators, Microsoft's Combat Flight Simulator - WWII Europe Series is for you.
Using the same attention to detail as in its Flight Simulator series - indeed, you can import "worlds" from the civilian game to this war one - Combat Flight Simulator allows you to fly in two Campaigns, The Battle of Britain and The Battle for Europe, as a pilot in the RAF, Luftwaffe, or USAAF (U.S. Army Air Forces).
Combat Flight Simulator - Europe lets you fly many of the famous fighters in service in those three air forces. If you fly as a British pilot, you can expect to be at the controls of a Hawker Hurricane Mk. (Mark) I, a Supermarine Spitfire Mk. I, or a later variant, the Mk. IX.  As a German pilot, you'll fly either the Messerchmitt Bf 109E or the Focke-Wulf Fw. 190A fighters.  Finally, as a Yank in the USAAF, you'll man either the sturdy P-47D Thunderbolt or the sleek P-51 Mustang.  All of these planes have their strengths and weaknesses, so try to read the manual (or the Help files) and do a bit of research before you hook up the joystick and take flight.  Particularly challenging are the ammunition load limits to each plane; each plane has its own ammo load capacity, and players more familiar with fighter jet simulations (such as Microprose's famous F-15 Strike Eagle series) may find themselves shooting away all their ammo at one plane (if they choose realistic presets) and then being unable to shoot at anyone else because they have no bullets.  I would advise rookie pilots to use Unlimited Ammo settings until they have had enough practice to shoot down enemy bombers and fighters without wasting precious rounds.
The simulation not only has the two Campaigns I mentioned earlier, but it has Free Flight, Quick Combat, Single Mission, and Training modes.  Quick Combat, particularly, is good for players who like both flight simulations and arcade games.  This option lets you choose what and how many enemy planes you can face off against, where the fight takes place, what weather conditions are like, time of day, and tactical situation.  The enemy comes at you in waves, like in an arcade game, and as soon as you dispatch one wave, another appears.  The challenge here is to shoot down as many planes as you can before you either run out of gas or are shot down. (Unlimited Ammo should be your choice in this sort of game no mater how good you are, unless you can shoot down one plane with one bullet.  Here, skills learned in a jet fighter simulation will not help you!)
For players weaned on jet fighter games, it would be advisable to use the non-1940s HUD (Heads Up Display) view option.  I (since I am new to this game myself) still use it in the Campaign mode since the "Cockpit" view option, while more realistic, is still a bit overwhelming to me.  Purists and/or experienced pilots can set realism to 100% to their heart's content, but casual players or rookies should start out easy then gradually increase the realism settings.
The graphics are excellent, even for a 1998-era game.  Being a Microsoft game it runs on most Windows platforms except 3.1, and I am sure no one reading this review still has that operating system.  I particularly like the "worlds" depicted: you actually get a sense of flying over 1940s Europe.  The sound is also good, and you can even hear your fellow pilots' radio calls. (Like the more advanced flight simulations, the Single Mission and Campaign games are very realistic in that you fly with a squadron, something I never experienced in F-15 Strike Eagles I-III.  I did once own Microprose's F-14 Fleet Defender, a game that had AI wingmen, but I could never get it to run on any of my machines!)
Microsoft also offers a Pacific series counterpart, which I am hoping to get soon.  Check to see if they have expansion kits.  Many simulations ranging from flight to Star Wars starfighter games have them, and I believe Combat Flight Simulator is no exception.
Oh, yes. Good luck, happy landings, and good hunting!Basically, Breath of Fire 4 stole a lot of ideas from it's predecessor, this one. It's kinda like a degraded Breath of Fire 4 actually, but still truly brilliant, and well worth buying.A police officer I knew got me into this game.  I didn't think much of it because it was essentially the same game design as the venerable DUNE and War Craft games.  One Age of Empires, as originally designed, was never meant to be the huge slug fest that it ultimately turned into.  The icons on the map were meant to be just that; icons representing single armies.  But the players demanded more, and a patch was released allowing multiple units to be manifested on the map.  Result, that icon that was supposed to represent an army suddenly became a single unit in the army.

So, instead of a game where you see elements of civilization compete and clash, as was the intent, new users essentially got another massive army combat game.  Not a big deal.  It was fun all the same.  I was befriended by some guys on the old MS Gaming Zone, and we'd have a blast after work or school, going late at it late at night.  And then on the weekends we'd have marathon games in the morning.

Great fun, lots of fond memories.  I'll never forget my Age of Empire days.

I think the game's well past its peak, but even as a solo effort it's slightly amusing.

Enjoy.This is one of the best classics game I've ever had. This game is released years ago, yet this game is still a fun game to play today.

This game's requirements are not high and this game can be installed on slower PCs or laptops. If you like this game, you may want to add the expansion pack available to enhance the features on this game.When I first loading this game there was many graphics problems and hanging up on my computers part.  I have a relatively new computer compared to when this game came out in 1998.  This is a good game but make sure before you buy it that you have the best graphics card possible or else you'll run into the same problems I did.This is a great game. It's going for $9.99 now, damn good deal. A lot of fun. Well worth ten bucks. Plays on lap tops. So you can have something to do at work.  Wyatt KaldenbergThis was the only Breath of Fire game I've beaten.  But I must say that it was fun.  The story and side quests kept me going.
One of the downers was that you can't hardly change your angle.
A big thumbs up going to the fact that you don't have to change screens to get into a battle (like Chrono Trigger).  This saves lots of time and makes thing more dramatic!  Fighting in narrow hallways and thick forests was great!
I'm not going to spoil it for anyone...but the ending sucked badly.  But not enough to stop me from buying the next sequel.  ^_^Microsoft has given all other WW2 simulators a challenge. This game has great graphics and gameplay and at times good cinemas, but not the greatest.  It's hard to play without a joystick and a good system, if your  speed is not a Pentium 2 or higher it could be a little slow. It's still  fun though. The missions are fun and fast paced, although it takes a while  to get used to and be able to handle the plane. Also in battle it's  sometimes hard to get the other planes, but the bombers you'll probably get  on your first try but it still takes a while to get the others. There are a  number of different aircrafts, but only a couple available in each mission.  It is a challenging and fun game, I reccomend it to people who like air  combat and flight games.I really enjoy playing this game.  In the beginning I found it a bit confusing compared to Age of Empires (an absolutely excellent game), so I didn't really like it.  I eventually became better and now I find it very fun to play.  It is set in the future and you can have your choice of who/what you are.  There are some really cool aliens.  Take a look at this game.  It's great for someone who likes stragedy!  Planning your next move against the enemy.  Highly recommended!!This was a really fun game to me. I enjoy challenges and puzzles and this game offers many of each. They got the sarcastic one liners of Indy down pretty well, though it would have been a lot cooler if Harrison Ford voiced it. The game has an intriguing story, though somewhat far fetched, but its a game. The graphics were a bit on the mediocre side for the requirements, but it didn't take away from the game play. The controls are good, but I find sometimes they don't respond like they should. My only real complaint is how linear the game is. There is only one way to go and that doesn't make the puzzle solving the most fun sometimes. Good game overall.This is a great follow up to Fate of Atlantis, and it's nice to see Indy jumped into 3D. The textures are really nice, and it carries a lot of Typical Indy puzzles. Sure it looks  a lot like Tomb Raider, but you know Indy was there first. This game needs to be ported to PS. The only downfall is theat the programming is a little tempermental in Win2000, but then again, what isn't? Plus there are patches for this game. this is worth the buy. You won't be disappointed.I had big worries about this game.  I used to play the old point and click adventures of indy and I was worried that, like its predisecors this would be insanley difficult.  Thankfully it is not.  I am a bad puzzle solver and luckily, (With the exception of the pyramid of the sun dial puzzle) none of the puzzles are that hard.  The graphics are quite nice and the levels are gigantic and tempt lots of exploration.  All of the characters are well done and interesting.  The music is nice and you have a lot of neat weapons to choose from.  However this game does have some flaws.  First off, sometimes you will be walking around wondering what the heck you are supposed to be doing.  Second, some of the enviorments are way too big.  The third and biggest flaw is that the last levels are way out of place.  The 2nd to last is strange but acceptable, but the last level is wayyyy out of place.  The last flaw is that the ending is really dissapointing.  Overall this is a fun game that will take up a lot of your time and is definatly one of the better Lucasarts titles.As I said, This is a good game, Acctually it's a great game. One of the best strategy games i have played(Along with Age of Empires 2 and The Sims).  I have always liked another game, age of empires as whell(I reccomend you check that out too), But this is a little bit different.  Unlike in AoE, were you just control humans, in this you control one of three species. The Zerg, The Protoss or the Terran(Human).Each with there own special units and abilitys.  The Graphics are acctually pretty good, Though some looks a little to cartoony(Not cartoony, i mean to much like animated stough).  You have 3 campiangs to play.(Duh, one for each Race/Species).  The one problem with it is its map editer.  I had always liked creating my own maps and scenarios in Aoe and was looking forward to creating maps on this game, but was dissapionted.  You can decide on the terrain and were resurces are and where you start, but thats about it.  It has this stupid dfault thing were evan if you "DO" put units, They just put your town center/Conrl center/Nexus, etc, and four worker units.  There is suppose to be some thing you type in in the propertis box to change this but it never works no matter what I do.  Despite this problem, its a good game.  Buy itThis game is great, and it is a great game overall in order for LucasArts to strike back at Eidos's Tomb Raider for trying to take away Indy's title of the greatest adventure dude out there.  The game is one of the best I  have played, but if you do the wrong thing, the game crashes.  MOST of  these problems can be fixed by downloading patches at lucasarts.com, but I  really hate the hassle this causes.  Make sure you know how to get a patch  if you get this game.If you've never played the Quest for Glories, then you're missing out on a lot.  They're really great games, with a combat system that is quite addictive.  My own, personal gripe with this collection is that I can't get  Quest for Glory 4 to work on my computer (it's too advanced).  Sure, I  could start all over, but my guy's a Paladin and he's got 300 points in all  statistics...  Still, these games are some of the best, and if you haven't  played them, or if you've wiped them off your hard drive, then this  collection is really worthwhile to get.StarCraft is always fun, although you start getting bored with the same  old sprites after a while. The balance of three different races is great,  although you'll have to download patches for the latest game balance  (necessary for Internet play). Gameplay itself is easy to get a grip on,  blut very hard to master. Still, the game allows players to just build up  big, powerful units and bulldoze to victory.This game introduced me at a young age to communial development planning, and money management. This game is, I guess you could say, one to grow with, it takes time and it helps one to learn along the way. I'd also like  to add that it helps, especially a younger mind, to experience freedom with  their money allowing them to spend it as they choose. If he/she spends it  unwisely (go bankrupt) that person will know to become better managers of  their money the next time.I've had fun with this game for hours and hours.  The gameplay is god.  The only 2 bad things is the graphic aren't that great and flood can't wide the city off the face of the earth.  It's worth the buy!Good descent ww1 sim, but we must remember this sim is old, so the graphics are not going to be the best in the world. It's sort of a classic. The planes probably handled the same as they did during that particular time.Diablo is the game that changed everything.  I had high hopes for this expansion.  This expansion was published by Sierra not Blizzard, and it shows.  The install insists on installing bloatware.  The Monk is added to the playable characters, but is not well thought out.  A monk should be a hand fighter, but instead it uses the staff like a wizard.  The special ability, to locate treasure is nice, but because the "search" skill can be learned in a book it is not unique like the trap finding of the rouge, or the smithing skill of the warrior.  The monk is a disappointment.  There are a lot of new items, mostly traps.  Because it adds items, the player does not find as many good items, as it raises the probability of finding them.  I did not find any new quests.  This is a very old game, and while fun, it won't run in Windows 7.  I had to dig out a very old XP computer before I could play it.  I am glad that Blizzard has not allowed other publishers to create expansions since.  I am glad to have played this expansion, but I don't think it was worth the price.  The seller however was wonderful.  I would recommend him.You'll have to create a COMMAND.TXT folder & place "multitest cowquest theoquest bardtest barbariantest" to unlock some of this stuff. The Monk can either bee seen as some kind of Joke OR the most challanging character to play. The Bard & Barbarian are improved versions of the Rogue & Warrior in that they can wield two 2-handed weapons at a time. The cowquest is funny. Not having played Diablo without the expansion, I can't say what else is new, but I DO like that this game has the SAVE ANYWHERE feature than many games after it neglected. There are an aweful lot of different dungeon maps, so I suppose some were added, as well as armor, weapons, monsters, extra difficulty. On the negative side, it didn't add better voice acting.....When this came out everyone went crazy because it was new and the games were on discs. Which is much eaiser and handier to keep clean and take places. Most people had a N64 before this and even at the same time, so they were used to the cartridges which were big and bulky and somewhat annoying. It has two memory card slots and two controller slots, and it can play compact dics so you can listen to music when your bored on your tv with your own cds. Most games on this console had good graphics back then so people thought it was amazing. They became highly addicting and very fun to play. This became the most popular system in the USA and almost everyone had one back then. Many games get scratched and broken as time goes on since they are old but try to keep them in their own cases they came in so they will play better and much longer with out the annoying freezing and skipping of the game. I am saying this because many games will not play or work anymore because of the lost case so they were just thrown around in the closet untill i finally put them in a computer case way back when....now i am more protective of the games because it is very dissapointing to find that your favorite game will not work anymore and you have to go through the trouble to buy them online because stores do not keep or sell them anymore. This is a very good console that i would purchace if you do not have a ps2 or just to have this original masterpiece to bring back memories!!!Right up front, you need to know that this is not an easy game.  Video jocks who play all those fast paced (and basically brainless) real time strategy games will probably not go for this one.  However, thoughtfull  players with some tactical skill who like a real challenge will find this  game very rewarding.
The heart of the game is its tactical combat system,  which is by far the best that I've seen in any fantasy game.  Maneuver  plays a big part in it:  Using your faster units to circle around and hit  your opponent's archers.  Using your slower melee units to screen your  archers from his troops.  Using the terrain to set up "kill  zones" that you can lure your opponent into.  It will take a little  getting used to, so expect to loose your first few battles until you figure  out how things work.
The game has an interesting variety of units and  spells, and a particularly nice selection of artifacts that you can find in  dungeons and such.
The strategic level is good but not great. You collect  resources, you build things, you research spells, same as in most games.  One nice addition is the ability of high level characters to train new  units, letting them start off with some experience.  This solves the  problem that occurs in so many games of this type, where new units starting  late in the game are basically hopeless.
The two real weaknesses in the  game are  1.  A very limited diplomatic engine.  There are a total of eight  powers in the game, but your options for peacefull interaction with the  other seven are pretty limited. 2.  Weak AI players, at least on the  strategic levels.  Some of the computer players do absolutely suicidal  things, like walking their undefended leader up to one of your strongholds.  Even the toughest, Balkoth Lord of Death, isn't nearly as aggressive as he  should be.
Overall, this is a challenging but very interesting game that  players with some tactical skill will really enjoy.
Oh, and one fast note  for new players: The hardest part of the game is the opening.  To maximize  your survival chances, make your starting character a wizard of life, then  on your first four turns, attack four level one dungeons.  Then use all  your resources to hire mercenaries and attack the great temple.
Good  luck!This game was great back when games sucked.  If Sierra remade this game and released it now (with added civilization rts properties) for each race (fire giants, wind giants, water people, earth dwarves, ect) it would  hold it's own against all of it's current competitors.

It has amazing music, art-work, and you can really tell that the makers spent hundreds of hours making sure everything was seamless.  Even the one glitch that this game has (the Life Staff glitch) only makes the game more fun.  It's an old game, but classic, and with added expansionist features combining&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Age-of-Wonders-II-The-Wizard-s-Throne/dp/B00005YTYK/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Age of Wonders II: The Wizard's Throne</a>&nbsp;and&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Sid-Meier-s-Civilization-3-Complete/dp/B000BWYK26/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Sid Meier's Civilization 3 Complete</a>&nbsp;with Lords of Magic, they could have a game that would stand the test of time.

HECK!  If my Win-7 ran Lords of Magic, I would still play it, because there's just something about the music, the art-work, and the game-play that really pulls you in...The metal bookmark has a couple of weird flaws in it.  I wish that all the cloth maps that were included with the books individually were included in this set, but it's worth losing those to get this cool set.Don't get me wrong: I enjoyed this game from front to back. It has graphics that, while not amazing, you won't be confused about anything visually. The sound, however, should be award winning. It is simply magnififcent and gives you the feel of combat (when the combat music is playing, of course).
BUT: This game has bugs. One really bad one I found is when i was making a trade (this is a easy thing to do, and will happen often). I paid a lot of gold and stuff for some crossbowmen, and I never got them. It has only happened to me two times.
The game features a quest pack, but I don't find it fun. They expect you to win against dozens of creatures and evil guys and God knows what else, while you control, at best six or seven creatures.
The Lords of Magic part, however, is much better. You control one of 8 'Faiths', each with different creatures, buildings, and spells. Some of them are much better off than others: the weaker faiths have many more allies. The stronger faiths tend to have more enimies. Two Faiths, Fire and Choas, start out with only one ally, which is each other(two other faiths view them as neutral).
No matter what you do, your opposite faith and the Death faith start out powerful. This adds a new challenge to the game (The Death faith is out to kill everyone).
So, this game has good graphics, sound, and completly different gameplay. It does have bugs, but they won't ruin it for you. You should check out this game. Now, I'm going to go play a game that you, for whatever strange reason you have, still have to purchase...Sins of the Fathers (first game): While primitive-looking by today's  standards, this is a surprisngly deep and compelling game.  The characters  convey actual personality (from Gabriel's machismo to Grace's waspishness),  and you can't help but be swept up in this story of voodoo and destiny.  Even the midi music is pretty cool, though it might drive you insane if you  stay in one area too long....
 Beast Within (second game): A  full-motion-video game that shows you just how good the format can be.  While I didn't care so much for the guy who played Gabriel, everyone else  (especially Grace!) did an incredible job.  In this game Gabriel has  accepted his heritage, to a point, but won't accept help from Grace.  Not  that that stops Grace (little does).  In this game, you switch between the  two, as they work on the case from both ends (I found myself enjoying  Grace's detective work more than Gabriel's good ol' boy attempts at  sleuthing--though both are fun). Werewolves, missing Wagnerian operas, and  dead Bavarian kings all combine in an enthralling story that sweeps you  along, impatient for the next video clip.  And the music...both the opera  itself and the incidental music set the mood, and immerse you fully in this  epic.For the price, this is definitely a game set worth considering. Both games  are quite good, although definitely the second is the one that makes this  buy worthwhile. The first game is definitely a bit ancient in terms of  graphics and gameplay.
But Gabriel Knight 2...wow, what a game. I played  it twice, something I never do with adventure games. But this one was SO  well written and conceived, and it was recognized by many folks as a Game  of the Year. It truly does immerse you in the story, and some of the final  movie sequences are superbly done. Great locations, great plot, definitely  a game you HAVE to play if you haven't already.Despite not being a fan of other Jane's Fighters games, I enjoyed this entry.  The premise is obvious - fly missions in Europe's war-ton skies in the famous fighters of the day.  The format of the sim is similar to that of other Jane's fighters titles - you have a flight panel that's more for show than functional; you have separate pop-up windows for your instruments or to spot and range the enemy; you can click on individual targets and handy steering cues point the way to the enemy.  That said, WW2F is graphically a more modern generation of sim than those like USNF or ATF.  Graphics are more realistically defined, and are more immersive than those games.  The planes (instantly recognizable to any mil/av buff) look so realistic, you half expect to see your reflection in their chrome finish.  Atmospheric effects are clearly superior to the first CFS (which roughly coincided with this game) - including clouds, AAA fire and smoke effects from wounded aircraft.  Flight is difficult even at nominal settings - aircraft here are unstable, and may fly apart if overstressed, or simply fall out of the sky if load-factor isn't watched.  AI is somewhat impressive (I mean, I routinely got shot out of the sky, but I'm normally a horrible pilot), though must be compromised to an extent to fit a game where everybody in fighters will fight each other.  (Case in point being Me-262 jets, which will remain in prolonged combat with prop fighters like the Mustang, even though there principal quarry was the box formations of allied bombers; their acceleration and turning capabilities made them unsuited for dogfighting.)  For its great atmospheric effects, nothing seems to cover up an unconvincing attempt to model the terrain of Europe - although most of your work will be up high.  The campaign mode isn't quite dynamic, but it's not as canned as the one on CFS.

In short, this is as solid WW2 sim - perfect for those intimidated by the hardcore realism (and hardware requirements) of IL-2, but left hungry by CFS.

I ran this on a Pentium 4, with XP and a 64MB GF3 card.This game is great. I have a new computer and I still am able to go back  to Broodwar/Starcraft even though it may seem outdated. It just shows that  a game is built off of more than graphics and more on replay value and  gameplay.while the graphics are not that advanced it is still one of the best turn based strategy games available, the different cultures each have an individual feel to them and the advancement is both fast and enjoyable.I've owned this game for many years.. so long I don't even remember .. pre-2000. To the best of my memory, this game occurred when Sid and the Civ people were having a bit of falling out.. so Sid moved to Fireaxis and produced this game which built into it many of the "improvements" that he forsaw for Civ.. it was in some ways a "pointer" to CIV III and some of the changes to occur there.

Being a 1999 game it has "primitive" graphics.. no 3D etc as in today's games, but I still think they're decent. Also, like Civ II, this is not a half-hour game.. it can go on for some time.. but at least you can save it and pick it up later.

It does occur "beyond Civ".. after the launch of the spaceship and colonization of space.. and involves a new set of "races" and a new tech tree. Some call the tech tree "too foreign" or hard to understand.. but I don't really think so.. the techs may seem "artificial" or "invented" while the Civ tech's seem "real".. that is techs based on things we are familiar with. To me they are just a ladder to climb to more advanced capabilities.. wonders (called "special projects), social options, units, etc.

The game can be won through diplomacy, conquest, transcendence (sort of a human-evolution event), economics, cooperative.. and many rules can be turned "on/off" and "iron man" mode.

Further there is major flexibility in choosing not only governments, but also economics, military, education, environment (big factor in this game), research, health, etc. And you can take "stances" ruthless, moderate, or idealistic for military interactions.  Trade still can play a big role too.

This is not a war game (though it can be played that way).. instead it is an influence and strategy game.. Without being too longwinded, I think its strong points are (relative to Civ II)
* You can use the "governor" much better including customizing it to your own rules.. as opposed to the governor in Civ which I don't know anyone who uses.. (including unit automations) These are especially useful in  to reduce the tedium in the ICS (Infinite City Sprawl) and "pop-booming" strategies often employed where there may be MANY MANY cities.
* Strategic deallings with other civ's are crucial to a successful game.
* Boundaries (or areas of influence) are introduced.. these help "manage" war/peace and some of the really annoying situations in Civ II.
* You can set ingame "slants" on the governor as you progress through appropriate "play styles" of explore, discover, build and conquer.. you have to be prepared to play any of them depending on game circumstances.
* There are MAJOR improvements in automation beyond just the governor and "slants" such as using queue's for building, and "group" commands like "build road to" instead of having to go tile by tile to do it. The GOTO command is improved too complete with mod's like "avoid enemies" etc
* Instead of a lot of units, the units instead are basic, but EXTENSIVE mods can be researched and added to basic units to form new capabilities. This helps avoid the "warrior vs machinegun syndrome"
* All units can be upgraded for a fee.. this is more realistic than the "throwaways" or needing "Leo's Workshop" wonder.
* Materials don't have to be in the city to use it.. they can be "teleported" to other cities from one city or from a distant location if you can control the land.

Well you get the idea.. its just a lot of new stuff.. :)

I DON'T particularly like the huge differences among the races.. some of which have such constraints that they are virtually impossible to win a game with.. only 4 or so really lend themselves to playable games. But I don't think this is a "game stopper".. just a constraint.. It would be nice if some of the traits could be modified to more balance the game, but I truly think they were created to be a foil to the human player. As you play, you can use the "social engineering" for some balancing.

The game is richly complex with numerous "in-play" options, mod's and social structures, etc that can give play variations.

All in all I find it to be a game offering many enjoyable hours.. though it is hard to "FORCE IT" to play your play style.. you instead have to probe for play styles that fit the nature of the challenges of your particular game. I still find myself playing this now and then even 10 years after it's release.

It can be purchased now for the $10-15 range including shipping. I'd say its a definite option at those prices.I bought this game at a EB store. It was one of the most interesting civ games I have ever played. It had verry good game concpts and I played for hours on end. And that was about 7 to 10 years ago. I still remeber playing it. But then again I like all civ games. It got 4 stars over all. But I only got 3 stars of fun out of it. I finaly got burnt out on it and traded it. And I have nothing but good memories from playing it. Planting forest and reaserching biomorphic fugi. And the wierd mind worms which took the place of barbains. Differnt factions such as chairman yang of the hive and more cool stuff.This is a good space simulator.  It allows you to control many different aspects of your people, including socio/economic model, resources, transportation, security, etc.  It also allows you to design your own units based on what technologies you have researched.  It is also a good macroscopic military strategy game.  It is turn-based, so if you play only RTS don't play this.  If you don't mind turn-based games, though, and you like space-based strategy games, you should play this.  The graphics are second-rate, but that is just because it is old.Alpha Centauri is a turn-based, city-building strategy, a great follow-on but not a sequel to Civilization II. The game adds a lot of diplomacy features although I usually try to wipe the other players out. Alpha Centauri has automation features too: City governors who decide what to build, although sometimes they would try to build something they shouldn't such as the `Build' governor making military units. Overall a classic, recommended for most and a must have for Civilization fans.Having played more games of Civ II than I care to remember, I was really looking forward to this game. Initially I had thought it was just more of the same and I should have saved my money and kept playing Civ II. Dozens  of games later I can honestly say this game was well worth the 49$ I had  paid and at the current price of 19.99$ it's a real deal. The game isn't a  departure from Civ II in anyway and may fall short of other's expectations  when they are anticipating Civ III but with any amount of game play they  will be pleased. Is it the same game? Basically yes. Are there THAT many  improvements? No. Is it better than Civ II? Yes. Just the little things  like unit customization, new techs, new races, improved network play, etc.  make it worth it in my book. I've had the game since it was released and  still play on occasion and most likely will still play a year from now. If  you approach this game not expecting it to be a huge breakthrough in the  Civ series, then you won't be disappointed.The game is Civ2 in a new world (so I guess we could also call it Civ2: After our rocket landed). The interface is pretty much the same, if we neglect optical changes. From 30 nations we got 7 factions, which are  specialized (in Civ2 there were no special abilities), so you have to know  from the beginning, to which type you are most suited. Automation is by my  opinion not very helpful, the most helpful thing is building queue, which  enables you to forget many smaller cities until they grow to size 4 or 5  (then you must check every such city or bigger ones regularly, if you want  to make enough progress). Great bonuses can be won from the seas (not  usable in Civ2) and City improvements and Wonders are little more numerous  than in Civ2. The whole scene is almost too dark and morbid (Alpha Centauri  is a sun, therefore a planet could at least have a little light!), it runs  very slowly (units travel as they would take sedatives all time) and the  diplomacy is very limited (as is perhaps in real life, but every faction  leader is tremendously aggressive). Therefore best start for you is even  more essential than in Civ2, if you fall back at the beginning, it will be  very hard for you to gain back what you missed. The terrain is extremely  unpleasant and it can also be of great importance, where you land. I had  best experience with the science faction (Zakharov), because I was able to  overcome my opponents through technology. The game is very uneven from the  beginning (if you don't get a good draw, you are soon in trouble) and it  could run much faster. That took away one star for her. Otherwise - if you  like Civ2 and if you don't mind too much about this lacks, it's no question  - buy it. If you expect another revolution form Sid, lean back, play  another Civ 2 and wait for part 3.The reason I'm still getting PSX games is nostalgia but also because there are few games these days that match the awesomeness of the wipeout franchise. Having played this on both PSX, PSP and PS3 I must say the wipeout games never disappoint. The techno soundtracks are a good match for this type of racing game. If you are like me it will not matter if you get this or the more recent versions, it will be as fun!I've enjoyed this game for years. It doesn't get old. Lost my original copy and had to get another.Kings quest collection is very good.  It has all of the kings quest games except Kings Quest 8.  It also includes other neat games from the same creators.  The collection is pretty challenging and will keep you up late in the night for months.  Very fun!I've been a huge fan of King's Quest for a long time(I think it was the  first game I played that actually had better than monochrome graphics on my  286x)
The first three games are the best (which is odd, 'cause their  graphics are the worst by today's standards), four and five are pretty  cool. Six and Seven had cartoon-like graphics, but didn't seem to have the  adventurous feel of the others. The first one is still the most fun, and  they even added both the old, classic version and a newer version with  better graphics!
If you've played either Space Quest, or Police Quest...  you'll get an instant feel for this one!The Kings Quest series are probably the most memorable adventure games in  existance.  They appeal to children, adults, men, and women alike.  The  games are serious, slapstick, romantic, dashing, and so many other things  all rolled into one.  I really loved this series and I'm glad that someone  decided to package them.
Each game follows a member of the Daventry  family in one manner or another.  As an added bonys, girls.. sometimes the  hero is actually a heroine!  As the series progress you can watch the  Daventry family grow, have children, and suffer tradgedy through at least  three generations.
The only thing that might be a problem is that as some  of these games are old they might not work on newer machines.  Make sure  that you have all the patches from Sierra and read the documentation  thoroughly in case the games don't function your first try.  With a little  bit of computer coaxing you should get them going again, but you also might  decide it's not worth the trouble.This video game system is great, and even though it isn't very noticeable right now, it will be a major competitor for the Game Boy Color system, and is very compareable. The two systems are the same size, only the Neo Geo Pocket is horizontal instead of vertical. The system also has a bigger screen with sharper and more colorful graphics. The joystick is a bit hard to use, but you will get used to it. The one major gripe I have with this system is the fact that there aren't really any standout games right now. I do like the fighting games and I have Neo Turf Masters, Sonic Pocket Adventures, and Dark Arms: Beast Buster 1999 which are all good games, but they aren't very noticeable. Still, I'd buy this system and make these games noticeable, because the games and system deserve it.It seems some people don't like Call to Power because it's not Sid Meir's Civilzation, but that's exactly the point: It's a different game. This game is kind of a hybrid between Sid Meir's Civilization and Age of Kings. I think the AI intelligence is right up there with Civilization by Sid Meir. Also, the graphics are pretty good too. (This game is "old", so it may not be up to some people's standards.) Also, I like the huge maps and the lots of advances, city improvements, and units. Quite frankly, I like Call to Power's space-age military units better than Civilization's. If you're looking for a Sid Meir clone, don't buy this. But if you're looking for a fun alternative, this could be for you.Let me start out by saying I waited some time until purchasing this software because of the bad reviews.  I'm a huge fan of the first two games but decided to hold off on this one until the price dropped.  (Something about not having Sid Meier's name in the title.)
I have to tell you though I was impressed by what I saw.  Perhaps it was because I was expecting a terrible sequel but Call to Power (Civ 3) is a better surprise compared to Civilization 2.  There are more changes and the game is more complex.  As a matter of fact, I find this game more challenging than the previous two.
Now don't let this review get you enthusiastic about the game because on the same token, you might be disappointed with the sequel.  There are gameplay problems such as a new macro economy that doesn't seem to have been well planned out by the designers, no scenarios or predesigned maps (specifically, the world map), a combat system that leaves you in disbelief when your M-16 soldiers are wiped out by cowboys, etc...  I was also disappointed by the new wonders (I'm not sure how the copyright worked out with the new company, but I felt the old wonders were more logical.  An example is the sphinx instead of the pyramids.) that seemed to disappear quick (as far as their effects) because technology is obtained so easilly.
If an overhaul of the game was in store, I feel that the designers could have put more technologies into the game as well as a better variety of attack/defense units considering it covers so much time.  (2000BC - 3000AD?)
But the price is right for this game at this time.  Now that the Call to Power sequel is out, I would recommend this game to see if you enjoy the new format.This is Konami's attempt at ripping off Namco's Ace Combat series.  Plain and simple.  Whoever was expecting Microsoft Flight Simulator really needs to buy a clue.  The Dreamcast is a game CONSOLE, people... not a PC.  There is simply no way to replicate the dozens of keyboard commands required to produce a realistic flight simulation.
What does the Dreamcast do best?  Correct: arcade games.  This is an arcade attempt at a flying game.  No take-offs, no landings, no aileron tweaks, no altimeter factoring, it is a plain, easy to understand, straightforward shoot-em-up in the sky.  Are the controls sluggish?  Yes.  Do the different planes really matter?  Not really.  Will you get any mileage out of the machine guns?  Probably not.  But this is all par for the course for the kind of game this is.
Sky Odyssey for PS2 is a much more fun and active flying game than this, but this is by no means chopped liver.  The graphics are often impressive, and the game does put up a fight in the later stages.  But as long as you aren't dumb enough to expect a NASA flight replicator, you might very well enjoy this little romp through the un-friendly skies.  Who knew terrorists would have the $$$ to own more jet fighters than most industrialized nations?
(p.s. How in the world does this game maintain a 4-star review rating average when I know for a fact that I read at least a dozen 1-star reviews?)OK, first off, I'd like to say that Um Jammer Lammy is a great game. But ONLY for a select few. Some people might be turned off by the 2D graphics and cute characters, and it can be frustrating to time yourself while "playing" the guitar. At first I could only get through the levels on the Easy mode, but after a while everything gets easier.
The main concept is this: You are Lammy, Um Jammer Lammy, a guitar-playing lamb in a rock band called "Milkcan" (which also includes a bass-playing cat, a drumming dog, and a rapping onion). Throughout the whole game you are helping Lammy get out of sticky situations by playing the guitar (ex. putting out a fire, flying a plane). You are rated as awful, bad, good, or cool- and if you make it to "cool" you get to solo. You play the guitar by pressing different buttons on the control in time to the music, and there a guide telling you when to play. The songs are catchy and sometimes very funny, the animations are funny too but most of the time you are watching a scrolling guide on top of the screen, so this game is sometimes more fun for spectators.
Um Jammer Lammy has great music, good gameplay (esp. if you like puzzle games, or music for that matter), imaginative controls and, and the whole game is a cool concept (come on, a guitar playing lamb-- it's never been done before). There are hardly any music games out on PSX (as far as I know, PaRappa the Rapper and Um Jammer Lammy are the only ones, but I could be wrong). Overall, Um Jammer Lammy is a very fun game. If you're interested in a challenging game with catchy songs, a rock band made of up animals, bizarre scenarios, or just something different, then this is for you.Alien VS Predator is the best "Alien" game released to date (I was actually fond of Alien Trilogy) and has a lot going for it. You can play as a marine, alien or predator. Playing as the Alien is the easiest  and is pretty difficult to master as first. You will need to climb on  walls, learn to pounce, and sneak up on your targets. As the Predator, you  will need to use your fast arsenal of weapons, visions and invisibility  features to win. The scariest and most fun character is the marine. You  will need to collect weapons, health and watch your back at all times. You  never know when an Alien is around the corner. And if you see or hear a  face hugger, you better start shooting or run for your life. If one gets  you, you WILL jump from your seat! The only drawbacks is that the save game  feature is lame (if you download the patch, otherwise, there isn't a save  game feature,) and the game will give you extra levels at the end, ONLY if  you beat the game at a higher difficulty. Other than that, if you like the  Alien movies, get this! I give this title a B+.The variety of monsters and weapons is very cool and the story is fun. THe controls for combat are good, but your character does seem to plod around. It's a very good game.the cd worked for about 4 days and then...BAM!! it was skipping like crazy, it froze wen i picked Jack-2 or Kunimitsu,and now it won't come on at all. IT WAS A PRETTY CRAPPY COPYOverview: It's a good thing Blue Stinger is a launch title, because had it been released later, closer to Capcom's Resident Evil: Code Veronica, it would have been drowned in the torrent of comparison. Developed by Climax Graphics (of Shining Force, Landstalker and Dark Savior fame), and published stateside by Activision, Blue Stinger, with its cliched portrayals and B-movie voice acting, is an adequate, if underwhelming entry into the ever-expanding genre of survival horror.
Graphics: 8.5  Clean. Very clean. That's the most appropriate way to describe the visuals in Blue Stinger. The high-resolution texture maps and relatively high-polygon models are what you'd expect from a next-generation console, and the developers made sure to add liberal amounts of lighting, particle and translucency effects. Boss encounters are another notable, as they really show off the abilities of Sega's machine. The only area in which Blue Stinger does not stack up is a big one: animation. No motion-capture here. The characters animate quite stiffly, creating a rather slow and goofy-looking gait, and while this is not totally damning, it takes a while to get used to.

Sound: 7.5  Well, this is a CD-based machine, so the music is high quality. Some of it seems a bit out of place for a survival horror game, but it's not bad. This actually works in some places, such as the town/market area, where the Christmas atmosphere and music creates an atmosphere eerily reminiscent of the original Gremlins film. Voice acting is another thing entirely. While I don't think it is quite as bad as most of the professional magazines have made it out to be, it's definitely of the B-movie variety, perhaps a bit better than the original Resident Evil's. Maybe.
Control: 5.5  This is Blue Stinger's weakest point. Analog control is too loose for precision movement, while digital simply isn't responsive enough. The result is a game that's difficult to play at times when precision movement is critical (such as swimming). Luckily, this isn't a platformer, so these are few and far between. What really makes the control so lacking is the camera, which while far improved over the "cinematic" one found in the Japanese version (thanks to some noticeable tweaking by Activision), still manages to get itself in, shall we say, less than advantageous positions (usually they're experienced while in water or in tight corridors). While these are minimal, there are more than enough of them to annoy all but the most hardcore gamers.
Gameplay/Theme: 8.0  Yes, Blue Stinger has it's problems, but it is fun. As with any game of this nature, part of the fun comes with blasting enemies with high-powered weapons. In this area, BS delivers. Ranging from the usual shotguns and rocket launchers, to more exotic weapons such as ray swords (a lightsaber rip-off) and railguns. Each character has their own unique arsenal of weapons, which are either found or bought from numerous vending machines located throughout Dinosaur Island. Needless exploration and a few vague puzzles can dampen the fun for you (remember the passcode 1224, you'll need it), if you stick with it, the experience can be rewarding.
Overall: 7.5  Like many launch titles, Blue Stinger is a flawed first effort, perhaps moreso than many of the others. That said, it does have its good points, which are far more numerous than the gaming press is willing to let on, and while not for every gamer, if you like blasting baddies, adventuring and a decent story, and are willing to work past the flaws, Blue Stinger might just be worth a few of your hard-earned dollars.Blue Stinger I think is a must own for anyone with a Dreamcast this game is an action game and a survival horror game the first time you complete this game is the best you can complete it many times but you already know whats going to happen Some bad things about this game are their is some annoying music you have to put up with and you end up killing the same mosters over and over again Their is so much more to say about this game but I'll let you figure them out buy this gameGame was great , I recommend it for anybody looking to do some classic gaming on ps1 .This game has many levels and tons of characters to go along with them.  Tricks, tricks, and more tricks: that describes this game.  Plenty and plenty of game play.  If you love skateboarding, get this game.This is an excellent game, but not one that you can really jump right into. It takes a lot of playing to get used to the (MANY) controls and commands.  Microprose was quite thourough and everything is pretty darn authentic.  If you've got the time and patience this game is very rewarding.......one downside, no joystick calibration?  or force feedback....otherwise excellent!I had another B-17 game some years ago. This one is significantly different. This is a real challenge! First, the instrumentation and interior graphics are very good.
They could be improved by allowing the flyer to operate the flight deck controls with the mouse, but that is nitpicking. The exterior graphics are not state-of-the-art,
but they are plenty good enough to really experience the game. The sound is good and realistic.

I had better identify my equipment so that you can judge my viewpoint. I have a 1.8 MHz Pentium 4 with a half-gig of RAM and my OS is Microsoft Windows ME.
Video is ATI. I use a CH Flightstick Pro USB and CH Pro Pedals USB with Control Manager. (The brakes do not work with this simulation.

Everything else works fine and the loading was easy.

As to my experience, I'm in my mid-seventies and made my first solo in the mid '40s. I've flown a variety of single engine aircraft over the years, but have little
multi-engine experience, and that only as air crew, except on the computer. I've also built and flown a variety of radio-controlled aircraft. I have flown just about
every decent simulator on the market since 1989, but my specialty is WWII aircraft since that is my generation. I'm partial to the Pacific Theater, and particularly
love the F6F "Hellcat" as a fighter plane--it accounted for nearly 80 percent of all the Japanese aircraft shot down in air-to-air combat in the Pacific, and had a 19-1
kill ratio. Not bad. It also made more aces than any other allied single-engine fighter plane.

I mostly fly fighters. I think the best combat flight sim (for graphics and flight characteristics) currently on the market is IL-2 Sturmovik. Jane's WWII Fighters and
and Microsoft's Combat Flight Sim 2 are neck-and-neck for second place, and I'm looking at MS Combat Flight Sim 3 with high
hopes.

This is a good sim. It is very realistic in the flight characteristics of a large multi-engine prop driven aircraft. The sounds are very realistic as well, and for those who
think it is a difficult game--it is! But then, so is actually flying such an aircraft, but it can be learned. Practice, practice, practice!

The ability to move from one crew position to the next easily is not realistic, but it is great fun! One thing I appreciate is the very thing that bugs many; the fact that
you can spend hours on a single mission--in fact, you can spend several minutes stacked up, orbiting your own airfield just waiting to land after a mission. Oh, you
can avoid it by speeding things up to 8X time, but of course the actual aircrews were simply stuck with it. That's just the way it was!

In real life, it was hours, weeks, sometimes months of boredom interspersed with moments of sheer terror. "Hurry up and wait" was as typical of WWII as "Kilroy
was here."

But, do you want to get a feel for how it really was (without the gut-wrenching fear, of course) or do you just want to play another game? One thing about the
boredom of hours of droning engines--it lulled the crew, so that when the action suddenly started when a Bf-109 or FW-190 or (God help us!) an ME-162
suddenly bounced you out of the sun, it was all the more unexpected.

This is of course not like being at war. Not even close. The people who really flew in these ships actually died, as you know. More than 50,000 men from the 8th
died over Europe. That's the entire crew of 5,000 different aircraft. Losses were high. It was hard to get through the 25 missions required, alive. For the Luftwaffe, it
was, if anything, worse! There was no limit to the number of their missions. They flew until they were killed or the war ended, whichever came first.

I recommend this game if you have the patience and the equipment tofly it properly. If you are simply looking for something that will allow you to shoot down lots of
"enemy" quickly, this is probably not for you.

Joe Pierre, USN (Ret)B-17 is a great game.  I would give it 5-Stars instead of the 4 I did, but for the normal person(not a nutty a GAMER like me and others)it takes time.  I mean - Time to learn to fly, figure out what to do with the crew-10 men, and TIME to learn every position.  That said: buy it, sit down, have a few and learn to have a good TIME at your computer!!!You bet you do! You sweat buckets if it's 1944 and you're in a B-17G Flying Fortress over Germany on a bombing run to your target. 'Bomb doors open, steady, steady...bombs away'. Two things come to mind. (1) This doesn't sound like a typical flight simulator, and (2) flying straight and steady at 30,000 feet doesn't sound like a lot of fun. Right on the first but dead wrong on the second. This game is different from all other WWII flight sims to date, which have largely focused on man on man fighter combat. This is a multiple position role playing game whose primary platform is the B-17G (the only disappointment is that there is no multiplayer capability). There are 10 playable positions in the 'fort' including pilots, navigator, bombardier, turret gunners, waist gunners and tail gunner. The role playing element is so much fun and immersive, you may very well find that this is the only 'flight sim' where you spend the least time flying. Let's step back into this immersive game world for a minute to see how we arrived over our target in Berlin.
You've finished the 'pre op' reconnaissance briefing and you're on the way out to the tarmac to your 'fort'. There she is in all her glory, your 'Patsy Sue'. Those refitters sure did a nice job repainting the nose art and fixing the damage from the last mission. She's gotten you this far - the 13th mission. Halfway there. This mission's a beast though, - Berlin! You say to yourself 'Can I get the guys through the remaining 12 missions before we ship back home. Pray God, let there be no Me 262's this time'.
This little immersive scenario is courtesy of the game allowing you to take the role of pilot of your plane or squadron leader in charge of 12 planes or group commander. As group CO you pick the targets, plan the missions, select bomb loads and assign crews. You can also name crews. There is an operations room where pre flight recon and post op damage assessment film can be studied. Your B-17 is beautifully depicted. You can name her as you wish and change the nose art.  Let's get ready to take her up on the first of 25 historically based missions where we will come across other flyable planes. Three 'little friends' - Mustang, Thunderbolt and Lightning and three German fighters - Me 109, FW 190 and the deadly Me 262.
Engines on. Throttles up. Let's roll. Release brakes, adjust trim, take off speed, we're up. 'Navigator set course for Initial Point.' Weather outside is cloudy, It's expected to clear up over the target. Coastline coming up now, 'Where is that down there? - the Elbe river? Good job navigator, we're right on schedule'
Each of the playable positions in this game is incredibly detailed, none moreso than the flight deck. If the prospect of going through a 30 step engine start up procedure seems daunting to you, then simply jump to another player position and let the computer pilot take off. Each crew member has his strenghts. Lose a good navigator or bombardier and  you'll see the effects in degraded mission success. Replacements are never as good. The roar of the engines is impressive, and so are the other sound effects. Hopefully the ones you'll hear the most are those of healthy thrumming engines and your 50 cal guns barking out, not the sounds of exploding flak and the screams of your hit crewmen. The weather and terrain effects are also fantastic. Naturally there are various gameplay keys that provide a myriad of external views of your plane and the formation you're in and there is a timeskip key that rushes you towards the action.
We're approaching the target now, and beginning our bomb run. Out of the blue and shouted over my headphones, tail gunner says 'Bandits!, Six o'clock high, coming in now! Looks like 109's'. I'm firing now, remember - lead them, fire just ahead, let them fly into the stream... I'm missing!, God what a time to realise I should have put in more practise. From the waist position I see a black puff with an evil orange eye, burst under the port wing of the 'fort' flying next to us. 'There goes another 17' over the intercom as it slowly sinks out of formation, smoke spewing from two engines. Shrapnel has punched holes in our wing, metal frame is showing. More serious is the injury to the turret gunner. 'Navigator get back there and see what you can do'. The bombardier calls out ' 'Bomb doors open'...time seems to stand still, finally...'Bombs away', the shudder and sudden lift confirm it. 'Head for home.' Starboard outer engine now sputtering, any flames? No, smoking slightly though. No need to feather engine. How long to go? how many injured? how bad? Did I mention this game was immersive!!!?
We were lucky on this mission. No major damage and only one injury. We also failed. Our bombs came down nowhere near the target. One of the more arcane skills you can learn in this game is using the Norden bomb sight, adjusting for wind drift and making all the necessary adjustments to ensure an accurate drop. After unloading, pop down to the target view and wait for the thunderous explosion that signals the arrival of your bombs.
Now that we're safely at base the question is: Do you sweat when playing a PC Game? You bet you do if it's this game. The system the game was tested on was a P3 with 128 ram and Diamond Viper2. There were a couple graphical glitches - seams in the terrain being the only one that broke the immersive spell.JJGAmes sold it for a good price but its pretty scratched and comes w/o the case.
This is one of best ps1 games ever played. Pure destruction is what its all about.I personally like many types of fighting games and FUN is the thing that keeps me coming back for more.  A game can have pretty graphics sound great, and have all the bells and whistles in the world and still play like [...].  This game might not be as pretty as the Saturn version, but who wants a Saturn? One of the biggest flops since the future flop of Sony's [...]PS3.  A few frames missing and slowdown which I have not experienced personally are by no means reasons to dismiss a game that combines X-men with Streetfighter very well.  One more thing to mention about the price.  Not to insult anyones intelligence but simply supply and demand. It is discontinued, there are fewer and fewer copies available thus causing those on the open market to raise in value.It definitly improved from the first one from the upgrading of the vehicles.  Like the one before this one it was fun.This game has some of the best graphics that I've seen for the PSX.  It levels are very colorful and filled with futurous scenery.  The many powerups and weapons add to the fun in this game.  Control is a little hard when you first start playing, but it is easy to get used to (The craft slide a bit when you are turning).  There are only 8 ships to choose from and some of them aren't very good.  More tracks wouldn't hurt either.  This game is a good game and you should buy it.When Quake 2 originally hit the PC, it's unabashed violence and surprisingly addictive gameplay not only outshined it's predecessor, it killed it before it hit the ground.  The PS1 and N64 conversions took much longer than expected to be released, and fans of the PC game anxiously awaiting the home versions were a little worried about the quality of the home system versions.  When Quake 2 hit the PS1, those fears were dead in the dirt.  Activision, Hammerhead, and Id all did a fantastic job bringing Quake 2 to the PS1 while keeping a surprisingly smooth frame rate (although the graphics aren't as good as its PC counterpart, but that was expected) and the unabashed violent addictive gameplay remains intact.  The game makes excellent use of the PS1's Dual Shock controller; the controls are easy and every button is to be used.  While some parts can be frustrating and the game has a rather steep learning curve, Quake 2 is still undeniably fun.  Those still holding on to they're PS1's can find this bad boy at a rather cheap price and have a great time with this near classic FPS.Before I get into anything about Quake II I have to say if you still own a Sony PlayStation or like first person shooters in general Quake II is definitely a must own! Lots of great things to say about this game...

*The levels were well designed

*Even today the graphics are pretty good as a 3D polygonal shooter

*Love the light sourcing effects that bring realism to the overall look that Quake II has

*Very smooth fluid-like gameplay and excellent use of color

Thankfully the game has some pretty tough enemies because I notice with 3D shooters you don't get huge doses of enemies like you get in the older Doom games.

So why 4-stars?
Well (sigh) I was blown away by the first Quake and there's plenty of words for it-advanced,dark,creative,or my choice of word would be primitive. Firing a nailgun at an ogre (enemy) wielding a chainsaw and chucking grenades I thought the Quake series was just going to get more grim with every future release in it's polished form. Quake II is still a noteworthy shooter but it goes towards a hi-tech,bio-organic, cybernetic experiment and does a good job at it. It's just that the Quake series didn't stick to a particular formula.The single player isn't so great but if you've got access to 4 controllers with duel shock support I highly recommend getting this game and playing a few death match rounds with your buddiesOne of the best FPS for PS One.  Great graphics with a surround sound option.  Comtrols leave a bit to be desired as far as customization goes.  Not much for scares or surprizes and still mildly inferior to the legendary original.

Highly recommended to anyone who still plays the old PS.

Great shipping and condition of product.This game packs lots of action and a great soundtrack. It is great port of the PC game but the levels are not quite the same. As one who has played Quake ports or pretty much every available hardware (N64, PSX, PC, PocketPC, Symbian OS, Apple iOS, Windows Mobile etc) this game is invaluable.I went through my old Video games, weeding out those destined for trade in at Bookman's.  I saw this one and remembered liking it, so I threw it back in and played it through.  I forgot how much fun this game was and highly recommend a re-try to those FPS freak out there.  I mean, you can get this game dirt cheap now, and it is a total blast!!!

My only beef is, you have to play it through in order to use the cheat available and many of us play a game once and that's it.

Other than that, not a single complaint.  This game freaking rocks!  Tons of different monsters/foes, tons of cool weapons, level upon level of varying backgrounds.  Too me back to the old days of all the Doom games.

So, if you're feeling nostalgic and want to play an FSP that doesn't require you to evolve three extra fingers on each hand, dig this one back up or buy it dirt cheap here on Amazon.  You won't regret it.Yes, Quake II, the game PC owners have been enjoying for a long time, has finally made it to the PlayStation. Being a fan of PC first-person shooters, I was less than excited. I mean, I've already played the single-player to death on the PC, and multiplayer FPS games on a console are usually quite pathetic. The N64 version was pretty good, provided that you could look past the flaws that most fans of the PC version would notice in the first 20 seconds. The PlayStation version has many of these same flaws, but given the PlayStation's rapidly aging hardware, it's easier to overlook these flaws. While you may not remain interested in the single-player mission to see it to its completion, the four-player multiplayer in Quake II will make you glad you had picked up a multitap and three extra Dual Shocks. The storyline is your typical hostile alien sort of thing. You, as a space marine, land on the planet of Stroggos with the intention of blowing up everything in sight. Unfortunately, you get separated from the rest of the marines and are forced to go it alone. So now you must run all over this planet, collecting keys, opening doors, taking elevators, and wiping out various alien monsters before they tear you in half. To wipe out these aliens, you'll have to find weapons - your wimpy default blaster simply won't cut it. You'll find a couple shotguns, two types of machine guns, a grenade launcher, a rocket launcher, and two types of energy weapons - one of which is the almighty BFG, a gun that spits out a huge power ball and wipes out just about anything that gets near the blast. You'll also find a great deal of ammo, armor, and health scattered about the levels. A game like this really requires a good control scheme to succeed. Thanks to excellent use of the Dual Shock controller, it has one. In the default setup, you use the left stick to look around and the four buttons on the front of the pad to move in any of four directions. You can also configure the right analog stick so you can use it in much the same way. The R buttons handle firing and jumping, and the L buttons let you cycle through your weaponry. You can play the game on a standard controller, but trust me - you wouldn't want to. The game also supports the PlayStation mouse, but if you're already used to using a mouse to control your first-person shooters, then you probably have a PC and you've been playing the PC version of Quake II for ages, making this game mostly useless. Graphically, the PlayStation really does a decent job. The textures may look a little washed-out, a few models may have been simplified, and a few frames of animation may have been chopped here and there, but overall, the game runs at a very playable speed. The tradeoff is that the game has much more frequent loads. Most of the level modification between the PC and PlayStation versions is in the addition of many more small, closed-off hallways that serve as little loading areas. At first it's not a big deal, but when you've got to go back and forth between different parts of a level to accomplish various tasks, loading every 20-30 seconds is enough to make you crazy. The game's sound effects and music are taken directly from the PC version, and overall, the sound is great.
The multiplayer mode is where this title picks up most of its value points. Sure, a few of the multiplayer levels are a little on the weak side, but there are enough good ones that it doesn't really matter. The three modes in the game are standard deathmatch, team deathmatch, and versus. Versus mode is a last-man-standing affair, where you and up to three friends duke it out until only one of you remains. The coolest multiplayer option is the gravity slider, which lets you turn gravity way down for some really high-flying action, or turn it way up to keep people from hopping around like lunatics. Sure, it's not as versatile as being able to program your own modifications to the game, but it's a nice touch, and it manages to breathe a bit of life into the game. In the end, the PlayStation version of Quake II falls under the same disclaimers as most other PC-to-console first-person shooters - if you own the PC version, don't waste your time. But if you're looking for some good split-screen shooting action with a decent single-player mode to back it up, this version will make your day.This is an expansion pack to Baldur's Gate, it is an add-in, and it does not expand the original plot. There are three new areas that your party can explore. The experience point cap is also up to 161.000 in this game, making it possible to gain 1 or 2 more levels, depending on your class.
The three add-in areas are: Ulgoth's Beard, a small town north of Baldur's Gate where more or less all the expansion adventures take their start from, an...island(trying not to reveal too much), and Durlag's Tower. Of these Durlag's Tower is the most challenging and interesting. Durlag's tower is the biggest dungeon in the entire game, and can be a challenge for even experienced parties. The other areas, offer some interesting information, but are less exiting to play through. All in all it is an interesting expansion, although not an expansion in the true sense of the word. But since you can sometimes find both Baldur's Gate and Tales of the Sword Coast in one package at a good price there is no excuse not to get it.I'm surprised at the number of reviewers who found this game disappointing.  I found it to be a challenging expansion pack that significantly raises the difficulty level over that of the original.  No, Tales of the Sword Coast doesn't extend the story line of BG, and, no, the story line doesn't even FIT comfortably within the original BG plot.  And yes, Tales IS basically  an add-on that simply allows your characters to increase their experience points and find new items in the process.
Still, I think it is a fault to criticize the game too much (as many customer reviewers have) on issues of story line.  If you want a great, involved story, well, buy Planescape: Torment (my vote for greatest RPG title ever).  Even though Tales of the Sword Coast's game objectives may seem completely out of whack with the BG main plot, think back to BG and I think you'll recall LOTS of areas that didn't have anything to do with the iron shortage or Saverok  For instance, did the Firewine Dungeon "really" play a crucial role in terms of story line?  Did helping Drizzt fight off those hordes of baddies really advance the plot?  How about all the random quests?
In other words, I think one should evaluate TOSC using one simple maxim as a guide: namely, are the new areas fun to play?  In my opinion, the new areas in TOSC are both challenging and enjoyable.  One of the levels (***BEWARE, SPOILERS HERE***), the ice island is a throwaway, but the other two, Werewolf Island and Durlag's Tower, are impressive.  Werewolf Island does have a captivating plot, and although it's size in terms of area isn't large, the battles are numerous and semi-difficult.  Durlag's Tower provides players with something that BG kind of lacked:  a decent dungeon crawl.  I found Durlag's Tower very involving and moderately difficult.  Unlike the ridiculous monster count and borderline unplayability (in terms of difficulty) of Icewind Dale's dungeons, Durlag's Tower strikes a nice balance between being difficult but not too difficult; it knows how to challenge players without forcing them to die, reload, die, reolad, die reload, ad infinitum.
Lastly, I found this game a decent value in terms of length.  TOSC is now a bargain bin purchase, and although some customers here like to brag (lie???) about how the game only took them 10 hours to complete, Tales took me betwen 1 and 2 weeks to finish.  I admit that I may not be a master AD&D player, yet I did successfully complete BG and felt that my party was very much up to the challenge of the expansion pack.
This game does get docked a notch, however, for some small problems: 1) Pathfinding is still troublesome.  2) Inventory juggling is still a nightmare.  I truly believe that about 50% of Baldur's Gate (and this expansion) is spent juggling inventory items.  3) The puzzle element introduced in Durlag's Tower is more annoying than fun.  4) The next-to-final battle against a monster summoned with Durlag's Blade is insanely difficult and convoluted.  But basically, if you enjoyed the original you should probably enjoy this expansion.I would have given this game 5 stars were it not so blatantly hateful of Republicans. The last portion of the game gave the character no option but to spew venom, hate, and lies about Republicans. I only finished the game anyway because I had already bought it and thrown away the receipt. Otherwise, I would have returned it.

In the future, with regards to the rumoured upcoming Fallout 3, I will keep the receipt and do internet research about that game before deciding to keep it for good.

While fatally flawed by its undisguised bias, the game, in its time, was excellent. The mixture of realistic weapon, sex, graphic violence, post apocalyptic storyline, and rpg elements make this an almost great game.

The graphics were quite dated and the sound effects often cut out, but this was not the game's fault. I bought this game long after its time. Unsurprisingly, the intervening years since the game's first release saw graphics and sound standards rise dramatically. My soundcard also was not supported for by the game. Again, not surprising and not at all the game's fault.Oh, how I love this game, one of the most underrated RTS games I've played. Underrated because the original version of the game had major problems, and because the second game in the series seals the series' doom (it isn't very good).

I haven't played the original MechCommander (non-Gold) game. Apparently, complaints were aimed mostly at the interface and the fact that it was too hard, and there were no artillery strikes. As artillery strikes are my favorite single aspect of the game, I would recommend that you avoid the original and only get MechCommander Gold, but be warned: This is a hard game! Winnable, but hard. One reason is that there is no in-game saveability. Like the original Rainbow Six game, you play through from one scenario to the next with no way to save mid-game. However, there are some strategic tools you can use that most games don't afford. One is pausing the game. You can view different parts of the map, issue commands to 'Mechs and even send artillery strikes, all while the game is paused. You'll need to use this. Another strategic ace is the refit truck. If you have a refit truck available and it's a hard level, you'll do fine. The ability to restore damaged 'Mechs in-game with a refit truck is as close to cheating as you can get.

Some of the highpoints of the game:

Strategy. There is actual thought and timing required to win, whether it's scouting with a light, jump-able 'Mech with long range radar or just rolling through en masse, or burning your way through a forest to avoid bad guys. This is pure combat, no resource gathering and such like most RTS games where the economics are far more important in determining the winner than military might. Don't get me wrong, I love the economic side of RTS games, but MechCommander is a nice departure from that. Also, the look of the game is terrific. It's nice to look at. This game is two-dimensional with an isometric view. The second MechCommander is three-dimensional and looks like crud. Rise of Nations, while it has some three-dimensional elements, is two-dimesional and isometric. Please let that be the trend. Even Warcraft III, while three-dimensional, keeps a steady, non-rotating view of the landscape. This is the correct way to do it. The sound is pretty good, although you do get tired of hearing the same messages of acknowledgement and the fact that the MechWarriors have something on their radar. You kind of get used to it and ignore it. At least the voices are all different so you can usually distinguish who's talking.

It's a blast to customize the mechs with whatever weapons you find, and even better to salvage enemy mechs, which always have a slight advantage in firepower and speed. There's nothing quite like mousing over a storage bin and seeing the context-sensitive cursor change into a pair of pliers (or whatever they are, indicating that there's something to get in there).

Oh, and jump-jets are just plain cool! Man, I love this game! Plus, the cinematics at the beginning feature the same guy who starred in a fairly recent snowmobile commercial featuring the automatic jerky-extruder. The acting on both occasions is hilarious. A little bonus tidbit of trivia there.Fallout II, while falling short of the original Fallout, or the squad based Fallout Tactics, is still a fantastic game, definitely worth a look. It plays similar to the first installment, but boasts better graphics and richer character dialogues (The two things going for it.) I recommend purchasing the dual package, which contains both Fallout I & Fallout II. It is worht the price for the first alone, and the second is a nice bonus. Four stars, highly recommended.I wasent as inpressed with this game as I thought I would be.  First of all, the load times are forever.  Second,  this game has cartoon graphics.  Theird,  I hate the street fighters in this game. Forth, I love the x-men (they are absolutly fabulus).Yes, Fallout 2 is one of the best RPG games out there, especially considering the fact that there are no futuristic RPG's in the current market.  However, this game requires way to much search and talk.  It gets  very old very quickly, and you will find yourself with the best equipment  on the planet by simply waiting for two different parties to kill each  other.  I had a flamethrower within one hour of playing that made me nearly  invincible.  I mean, come on.  Unless you are going to play this game  without accepting help from NPC's, this really proves no challenge and  damages the fun factor.  At least the price is right.Well here I am. Making a review of a game made in the mid 90s in this year, 2011. What can i say? This bring backs amazing memories.

I could remember the time i went to the arcade with a friend, I found this game and i just HAD to play it. The graphics were weak in the arcade, but then they had it on ps1, which the graphics are much better.  I won't say this is the best game i ever played, but hey, it's not fair comparing a 90s game to a current. SO let's just put it this way because I'm bored.

Graphics: 4.5
Sounds: 4.8
Controlls: 5.0
Replay Value: 4.8
length: 3.5
Overall: 4.5

I'll recommend this to anyone who's enjoying classic games or is a street fighter fan,,, or to anyone who likes fighting games.

- A noobI like the game very much it was a lot of fun it was difficult but I will get better at it and I will find woody can't waitThis game is very different from any other Play Station game. But that doesn't mean it is dumb. When I first played it, it was hard. But when you really get into it. You will be stuck on that game. It's very addicting. I recommend this game to anyone who likes a great adventure.I fell in love with this game because of its simple interface.  Memorize a few button presses and you can be putting songs together in no time.  Pick from hundreds of melodies, bass lines, drum parts,  sound effects, and percussion samples and paste them together to make a song.  It's that easy.  You can even create your own riff if you've got the patience for it.  Then you can even create your own music video to along with your song.
  This game did not recieve as much attention as it should have, but I strongly reccomend it.  The only two flaws are the slowdown that occurs from time to time, especially during the video editing, and the songs take up an enormous amount of space on your memory cards.Monopoly on the Nintendo 64 is great. Most people just say "all it is is boring ol' Monopoly." To be honest, it's not. I never got bored while playing this game. It has so much appeal. The graphics are great, the music is solid, the gameplay is fun, even if you're playing against the computer. The only reasons I gave it 4 stars is that all it is, well, is just Monopoly. If they added more stuff, I would love it even more.

All-in-all, it's underrated. It's definitely worth a purchase.This is a terrific game for children who love the Toy Story films.  All the regular characters make appearances and it's just too fun controlling Buzz Lightyear!  I only wish the graphics, sound and control were a bit more polished.  The dificulty comes mainly from a constantly moving camera (but you can fix it when needed) and a bit too loose control.  For the younger gamers though these drawbacks won't matter much as it's fun just wondering around the levels and finding your friends.  You get to explore Andy's house, Al's Toy Barn and an airport among others.  Older and more experienced gamers will probably want to pass on this due to the laskluster graphics and unsophicated gameplay.  But if you're a fan as much as I am then you'll be able to look past these drawbacks and enjoy the game.  One thing to keep in mind is that to save your game you need to have a controller pack.I like it, I beat it, little replay value.  Better then expected.  In fact it's one of the best games for the Nintendo 64 (the first time around).game was in good conditions for a childhood game. WARNING! you have to buy a game pack (memory card for N64) if you don't already own one. it does not save and you'll have to start all over again if you don't save your progress. other than that,get it!This is one of the best kids video games i ever played! The graphics were pretty good for the n64. The things you have to do are a little challenging but not to hard. I don't know why it labeled as a kids game just because it based off a kids movie. Its a great game for kids and adults. The only thing that is frustrating is that its one of those n64 games that actually needs a memory card! Other then that its a great game and a must have if you want a fun game and are a fan of the movie!This is a great game to play with a friend or two or more. It's still fun to play it by yourself but it's definately better as a multiplayer game. This game is pretty addicting, so if you have alot of time to kill this is the perfect game for you. Hopefully there will be an upgraded version for this on the Playstation 3 but I highly recommend this game.Already has all the elements that will make bg series such an absolute game. To play preferably using bg 2 engine or wait for the bg enhanced edition. Pure role playing. Try it if you esp if you like the genre.Well...I must say that this game is just that: it's not the best game ever, but it is really fun and you'll play it a lot supposing you like D&D/AD&D or RPG's.  That being said, allow me to get to the nitpicky stuff.
One major gripe with this game that I have is teh experience system.  It divides up the experience rather then give each party member an exact copy of the amount recieved.  Another problem is the amount of "Cosmetic" strikes and how you miss a lot.  I guess that is for "realism" but it just annoys me. Also, sometimes the game is REALLY non-linear so you have to get a guide or talk to EVERYONE in a place to see where you need to go.
Other than that, this game is really good and will keep you playing it forever.  The story is really good and the rest of the game is good, I will not spill details, although most of you have already gotten the game and beaten it.  Well i must go, hope you enjoyed the review...This game is loooong. I really enjoy long games but this a bit much for me. Of course if I could play more than two or three hours a week.... Things I didn't like: not escaping though cutscenes, not automatically reloading the last quicksave and less 'reputation' comments from your NPCs-  Highly recommended and a 'must have' for any RPG fan.I bought Baldur's Gate after 2 friends kept telling me how great it was. I'm not a big RPG player, however I did find this to be a truly great game.

Positive features of the game: Visually, the game is quite well done, especially the scenary and spell effects.  The atmosphere can get quite spooky in underground caverns and during thunderstorms.  There is a lot of flexibility when it comes to character creation, and one is even allowed to double-class and choose their character's appearance.  The NPCs can be quite engaging, and party members (you can have up to 6) actually interact with each other verbally in often humorous dialogue.  The storyline is interesting and generally linear, though there are many sub-quests that one can choose to pursue.

  Regarding the down side of the game: By the time the game got to chapter 6 (there are 7), I was ready for it to end.  And the ending itself is a bit anticlimactic.  My party got up to only 7th level, and thus had rather limited abilities.  Comparing this game to Morrowind (which I am now playing), BG could have been a bit more open-ended and expansive in size, which would have enhanced its replayability.  After 12 intense days of playing to the end, I promptly auctioned it on Ebay.

  For those interested in a well-told, gorgeously rendered D&D-style adventure, with a well-defined main plot and credible monsters and NPCs, BG is a good buy.

Rating: 4.5 starsBaldur's Gate was the game that mannaged to blow new life into computer roleplaying games. For those of you not familiar with roleplaying games or the AD&D rules, here is a short introduction. You start out with creating your character, selecting a race(dwarf, human, halfling, gnome, elf and half-elf)and a profession(Fighter, mage, cleric(priest), ranger etc, etc). Then you roll up your ability scores each representing one physical or mental ability (strength, dexterity, constitution, intelligence, wisdom and charisma). After creating your character you start the game in Candlekeep, a keep located on the swordcoast famous for its library. You are an orphan raised by your ward Gorion. The start of the game is easy and not very challenging, but it does give you time to get into the game mechanics and there are several tutors in Candlekeep that can give you advice on the game. I will avoid going into any further detail about the game plot as it will ruin the joy of the game.
The game itself features a linear story line, but with a lot of subquests, some minor and some larger. There are plenty of areas for your party to explore, but beware, some of the areas might prove more than you can handle in the lower levels! As the plot thickens and you find out more about your background and the powers working against you it becomes more interesting, and you find yourself working towards the grand finale.
The graphics are fine, considering the game isn't new anymore. This is truly an entertaining game with only a few flaws(flaws that I only noticed after playing Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn). The character interaction in the group is almost non-existant, and it would have been nice with a little more in-groub dialogue. There are plenty of characters that you can have join your group...almost too many. Sometimes you are really have doubts about who you want since you are limited to a total of 6 members(including yourself). Even with the limited NPC(NonPlayerCharacter) interaction most NPC's are still very different and have good developed personalities.
The main plot is really good, intrigue based, although it seems that at some point you find yourself a bit "lost" in all the subquests and explorable areas there are, that you almost lose sight of the "real" goal of the game.
That said, it is still a great game. Most importantly it mannages to get the AD&D "feeling" to the computer, almost like the real thing. The AI does not always work as it should though, and you might find your characters blocking your path, so you are suddenly "stuck" in a small area and need to reload. This can be annoying, but knowing the danger of this happening can help you avoid it.
A note, this game is very different from games like Diablo and Diablo II, none of which were true roleplaying games. If you are looking for a way to hack and slash your way to glory this is not the game for you. There is a need to interact with other people during the game, and the way you behave and answer them will affect their reaction towards you, unlike Diablo where everything is a monologue. If you ever played and enjoyed tabletop AD&D, this will almost certainly entertain you. If you never tried AD&D this might just get you introduced.
I propably would have given this game 5 stars, but since I played Baldur's Gate II: Shadows of Amn, I have chosen to limit myself to 4 stars, as there are a lot of things that are enhanced in SoA.This game is wonderful. Customizing my character was very entertaining (and one of things I enjoy the most about RPGs, and the small side quests are numerous and interesting. There any many areas that serve no particular purpose other than to gain some XP doing quests. This, I think, is a weakness of the succeeding games in the BG series: there are not enough exploration options available. The possibilites of your party are nearly endless, since there are many NPCs, all of whom have their own strengths. However, there is little NPC interaction, which is disappointing. There are some annoying aspects of gameplay (which is what caused me to downgrade this game slightly), such as the fact that the characters are excruciatingly slow, and have a poor pathfinder feature, which leaves them w/ a tendency to go places other than where you planned. You will be challenged from the first shocking event to the final show-down...and you will enjoy it the entire way.Baldurs Gate, is probably one of the better role playing games on the market today. It has some good characters, along with a riviting story line that will keep you hooked as you play it. The music is great, and the graphics are very good for a computer game. There is a wide list of characters and NPC's that will help your character on their quest. And the best part of this game, is that the controls are actually easy to use, so you aren't stressing yourself out to looking for the right buttons to use in your battles. I rate this game at 4 stars because it could be a little longer, and a little better, but for 19.99 it is definately a game worth buying.The itme is very good all mat fun for kids  and the game is clean then once more i thank you.this game, just annoys me to the point i don't want to play it. the term Metroidvania doesn't do it justice if anything it insults the Metroid name because everything in Metroid is about exploration and everything is deliberate. SotN just teases you in the first part of the game and annoys you all together. so, at the start you play as Richter Belmont, picking up from Rondo of Blood, or Dracula X in the west. you reach Dracula and enters chessy voice acting. so your like oh ok, i can dig this, but you're already fighting dracula so what else is there to fight? fast forward a couple of years and now enters Alucard, running through the forest and jumps the gate. awesome scene, now your in control and this guy has a powerful weapon and armor. so everything just dies in one hit! yeah! just as powerful as Richter. then its taken away from you. that. is. so. not. cool. why the big tease?? where in development they thought was a good idea to show players Alucard's powerful equipment then have it taken away??  then the sense of direction. oh my god, after that big tease you follow the path and then after a while you explore but you can't because you need a relic to open blue door, but you need to find the relic, but you don't know where to find it! you find those relics laying around only that they supposed to be in the game already! not a fudging relic to show enemies names or the damage! its cryptic and its not known where to go. then the spells, its never told that you can cast spells to gain small health and summon a spirit. however! moving away from the negatives i will say that the soundtrack is amazing, and the graphics have aged well. its an ok title, much like Simon's Quest this game isn't for everyone and i'm almost done playing the game and i feel i've wasted so much time getting lost i just want to fight Dracula and get it over with! that's the point isn't? to get lost, waste time, get powerful, and then comes the endgame boss, your pretty powerful already, so you'll be disappointed on how the boss fight came out.

overall, its an ok title, but to me its just more annoying than fun, i'm already level 21 and majority of the boss fights are becoming easy, but i'm nearly done with the game, so i have to beat it now. its a game that just wastes you time, all games are, but this one and simon's quest just literally wastes your time like no other. the portable games of Castlevania follow this formula now, which is disappointing. just try this game out for 5 minutes then you'll see what i'm taking about. its also an XBLA title so you can find it pretty easy or pay for a PS1 title.The Good: Fast fun gameplay, nice graphical style, some of the best video game music ever created, long, good story

The Bad: Extreme difficulty can really turn some people away, the age here shows quite a bit

I never played this game before until now. I was too young at the time to really understand the game. Now that I've played it I understand why it got it's praise and I don't understand at the same time. What really makes me not like this game as much as other people is the extreme difficulty. Either that or I just suck at the game. I'm not really good at 2D platformers to begin with but this game does deliver on all accounts.

It has a great story, great graphics, fast fun gameplay, you can equip stuff on every body part you have (ahem), you can buy things! While I'm not a huge Castlevania fan to begin with (first CV ever was Lament of Innocence (PS2). I'm not saying this game is terrible but for me the difficulty was way too hard for me. I just couldn't get past the third stage.I'll state from the outset that my background in RPGs is limited.  Sure, I had friends who would gather together on Friday or Saturday nights to play pen and paper D&D, but I was never among them.  Occasionally, however, I did enjoy playing computer-based Role-playing games (the three Bard's Tale adventures).
I say all this in an effort to convince non-AD&D people or non-RPG players out there to give Baldur's Gate a chance.  Yes, AD&D rules are numerous and complicated (I have no idea, for instance, what 6D+4 means), but don't worry too much because the computer takes care of all this for you.  Essentially, you'll encounter enemies, you'll push your spacebar (to pause the action) and point and click, directing your party members how and whom to attack.  The computer calculates all the die-rolling stuff.  You just sit back and watch the blood fly.  This is not to say, however, that BG is a brainless game.  In fact, you'll learn quickly that "Fools Rush In" if you don't think about battle strategy.  Put simply, Baldur's Gate achieves a perfect balance: it both satisfies hardcore D&D folk who have long clamored for an accurate PC RPG experience while also not scaring away newbies.
This is not to say that BG doesn't take some learning.  The manual is thick and at times confusing (particularly in how to memorize spells).  There are lots of options in BG, so you'll have to become familiar with the game interface and inventory system.  Be prepared to spend several hours just getting comfortable with how the game operates.  Also be prepared to die a lot in the beginning.
Once you've mastered the controls, this game gets addictive, and fast!  BG is now an older title, and with BGII having been out now for over half a year, the original is currently a bargain bin purchase.  I bought my copy through an online auction for eight bucks.  Those eight dollars provided me with six weeks of constant gameplaying.  Most action games can be completed in less than a week, but BG was vast and involving.  The world is huge and sprawling, side quests are seemingly infinite, and replay value is a bonus.
So why four stars?  Well, like many people, I have my subjective, nit-picky problems.  First, the pathfinding is pretty weak.  It's mostly okay when you're out in the open, but in dungeons, the pathfinding is flat-out horrible.  I barely escaped the Firewine dungeon alive because whenever I'd get into a battle and order my commands, my party members would then stupidly go off in six separate and unexpected directions.  Second, although the world is huge, it does get tedious trudging across the BG map.  At times, the game can feel like a chore to explore that unnamed wilderness section that's located leagues away from where you truly need to go only because, well, you feel there might be something interesting there.  Third, going up levels takes a long time.  Don't get me wrong, I realize that going up levels shouldn't be too easy to accomplish, but it's kind of disheartening to only be a level seven fighter at the end of the game (because there's an experience point cap of 89,000) with thirty-odd hit points.  Either raise the cap or make level limits a bit lower.  Lastly, although hardcore gamers may love the myriad spells, weapons, and potions, I felt there were too many.  Your party members don't have many slots for carrying items, and all those items you find during your travels (potions in particular) become annoying (should I use such-and-such potion immediately? should I save it for a big battle? should I sell it and make money? should I simply leave it behind).
Still, despite the quirks, I've never been so deeply involved in a PC game, and I'm looking forward to my next purchases: Icewind Dale and BGII.When I first picked it up, I thought it would end up just being another throw away.
I WAS WRONG ! fun game, your actions change the story an how others will interact with you. Download a few "add on " utilities for this an you will become a GOD.....lol
I would have given this a 5 but they need to change up that ending a bit......kinda goes to fast. :(After this game I played Diablo. Diablo is not a bad game,but Baldur's Gate makes it look like Pong. This is the best AD&D game iv've ever played (and I play a lot).
Baldur's Gate is about a kid (played by you) who grows up in Candle keep,under the kind tutelage of his foster father,Gorion. After a couple of years growing up,Gorion wants to move away. You don't know why. In about 20 minutes into the game (that's how long it took me)Gorion gets killed in a horrid battle by mercenaries. You must avenge him. But,after traveling and making friends (and making enemies),you find out your dark secret.
Very addictive game. Yet the computer was going through hell. That's the only problem.
Buy this if you liked Lotr!(Lord of the Rings)!"Symphony of the Night" is considered the pinnacle of the Castlevania series, and with good reason.  At a time when side-scrollers were falling to full 3-D games, Konami proved that there was still room for a good 2-D game in the gaming industry.
"Symphony" boasts impressive environments, huge bosses, multiple endings, creepy music, and more weapons and items than you can shake a stick at.  My only problem is that it's just too much for me to remember--when I'm being mauled by Beezlebub is not the time to look up the "Dark Metamorphosis" spell.  If you take the time to learn all your spells, as well as the ins-and-outs of all the Familiars, though, you won't have that big a problem.
I have just a few picks about the game:
1.) As stated before, the inventory/spell system is HUGE and can be intimidating.
2.) Voice acting.  Aughh.  Wish there was an option to turn the original Japanese voice acting on, like you can in "Lament of Innocence."
3.) Bosses.  Bosses are typically easy, provided you have enough health-restore items.  However, I frequntly found myself being turned into a bloody pulp (literally) by the sheer numbers and strength of ordinary enemies--isn't it suppossed to be the BOSSES who kill you over and over again?
Don't get me wrong, "Symphony" is one of the best Castlevania titles to date--but if you're looking for a more user-friendly Castlevania game, I suggest "Aria of Sorrow" for the Game Boy Advance.This is an interesting title. I never got into it that far but it is  pretty cool. Very difficult. Beware not for amateur gamers. I can get about  5 hours in and half my men die. I don't like when that happens, but you got  live I guess eh? Good luck if you choose this title.Hey, I remember the old gold-laden boxes for the first AD&D games by  SSI back when the C64 was still a great computer, and I'm here to tell you,  this is a vast improvment! Overall the game is well drawn with decent sound  and standard voice acting.  Many elements of the pencil and paper game a  found here, with some annoying omissions that will be fixed in the next  installment.  These were the low experience cap and inability to distribute  weapon slots towards two-weapon style, to name a couple.  At any rate, the  game is LOADED with sub-quests and days of good solid gameplay.  Black Isle  is on a roll.There's no other way to put it, there has been no other game I've ever played in my life where I've wanted to play the game from the beginning over and over as I did with Castlevania:SOTN. Sure, I beat it countless times, but from beginning to end is just so much fun it's unbelieveable. The game is SUPER DEEP, you'll never use EVERY special trick no matter how long and how many times you play this game. The graphics are spectacular for 2D, the music is the best of any game I've ever played (why no soundtrack available??)
So why not 5 stars? It hurts me to not give it 5 stars but I have to be honest, the games kinda easy, sure it's super long, but back in the day of the old castlevania games, they were just so challenging in terms of obstacles and amount of enemies. But with this game, with all the save spots, free extra health and lack of extremely hard obstacles it's kinda hard to die. Although, if it had been that hard then I probably wouldnt be playing it over and over again. Let's say 4.5 stars.
One more thing, if you go through the entire castle and beat Belmont, don't think you're done yet, you've still got a whole other castle to conquer.One of the things that always made D&D annoying for me to play was that the GM could rarely be completely cold and fair in regards to die rolls.  sometimes the GM would pick a favorite class or a favorite PC and  they'd always come out better than others.  Well, in Baldur's Gate the GM  is the computer so everything is fair and impartial.
On the singleplayer  aspect the game is fun.  You can be whatever type of person you want to be  and do whatever you want.  You can be a noble paladin ot a scoundrel  thief... it's up to you.  As you progress through the game you gain  experience and abilities and learn more and more about why people are  hunting you.
On multiplayer it can be fun if you have the right group.  The story is the same as it is in singleplayer except one member of your  party is the main character while the rest of the group are backups.  If  you have a group with enough imagination you can have a game that lives up  to any tabletop D&D game.
In actual gameplay, a lot of what you do is  travel from place to place and quest.  Sometimes you encounter people who  want to talk to you and sometimes you run into a pack of monsters to kill.  The interface reminds me a bit of Diablo, but the games are not clones of  each other, I assure you.
Although the game is slightly buggy that  cleared right up with a patch.  I also like the ability to customize your  character portraits and sounds, it makes the roleplaying aspect all the  more real.Kingpin: Life of Crime is a dark fps with a great gameplay set in the real bad world. You play a unnamed guy just called Thug. The game opens with thug badly beaten up and left in an ally by Nick's men, Nick works for the kingpin, Thug vows to get revenge, but he does not have anything besides a small pipe, so he has to kill people for money, he kills people takes their money and weapons, buys more weapons, hires goons, rides on a stolen bike, jumps into a moving train, finally he takes on the kingpin, kills him and he becomes the kingpin. The single player gameplay is a different and great experience, no boss levels, all the villans are humans but their weapons and toughness changes. Besides shooting the baddies you have to talk and get advise from people in night clubs, visit the pawn o matic, hire goons ect. The level design is fantastic, From a dark ally, a steel mill, railroad, bad streets ect. They are very fun and very enjoyable to get through. The level are huge and are in hub layout. The weapons are good, There is a pistol, shotgun, tommygun, grenade launcher, bazzoka and a flame thrower. The flame thrower looks as good as it is in rtcw, This same company did rtcw.
Kingpin is built on the heavily modified quake2 engine. I play it on the default OpenGL video mode and the game runs very smooth. The graphics are fantastic, look great even today. The charecter animation is good but thier flesh moves as if they do not have any skeleton. Sound is very good, weapon sounds and the music is great. The voice acting is averange and almost all the male charecters sound the same. The art direction for each levels is superb, artists who did it should get an award for their contribution, kingpin has the best art direction in a computer game even today. Wow! fantastic environments look real and the atmosphere is superb. Kingpin is a very violent game, you could see arms and limbs comming off, baddies injured and running away will leave a trail of blood. the level of violace and langauge make games like sof look like a kids game, you can reduce them by installing the pg-13 version. There are lots of bad words you will hear the f-word hundred times in the first level itself. The AI is quite good, villans react well in situation. Kingpin is a very good game, If you do not mind games with heavy violance and bad words then you will surely like it. It is one of the realistic and coolest fps i have ever played.The first Zork game done by Activision was Return to Zork, which looked cheap in many spots and although had some innovations it wasn't very impressive.  Next was Zork: Nemesis, which was worlds better but also very  dark and serious.  The only thing that made it a 'Zork' game were a few  familiar names and locations thrown around.  It lacked the humor of a true  Zork game.
Grand Inquisitor is both high quality and a true Zork game.  The humor is there, familiar locations are there, and the mood is most  assuredly Zork.  From a Brogmoid eating rocks to shoving a river raft in a  dragon's nose to getting a house drunk... the game is pure Zork  humor.
The visuals are from first person perspective much like Myst and  Riven, with video of various characters (CGI and live action) interspersed  throughout.  It's a 2 CD game with one Cd devoted to being above ground and  the other below.  As an added bonus, you can also play ZGI in multiplayer.  As far as I know this is the only multiplayer first person adventure game  in existance.
The premise is that magic has been banned by the Grand  Inquisitor and the head wizard has been trapped in a lantern.  Said lantern  makes interesting wisecracks as you play ("Your sword is blowing glue!  I mean.. er... glowing blue!") and helps keep a light edge to it  all.
If you like the humor of Monkey Island and are a fan of zork you'll  enjoy this game, or even if you just want to play an adventure game with a  light mood and good quality graphics.I noticed a previous reviewer said you really need a fast system to play BZ2. Well I am playing on a 300mhz pent2, 160 megs ram, Voodoo3 3000, and with a 40kbs internet connection speed and it is smooth as silk with every  feature turned up and using 800X600 res. He must have alot of stuff running  in the background. Well enough of that. The single player game has great  graphics and good strategy gameplay. I find the storyline a bit weak  though. The multiplayer portion needs some work. Ping times are extremely  high and it is hard to get into a low(sub 400) ping room. They really need  to fix that portion. While I am not quite as impressed as with the first,  BZ2 is still a good game to keep you glued to your monitor for hours.This game is one of the best out there as far as graphics are concerned.  With real voices and great graphics, gameplay is one of the best of its kind.  I would suggest this to anyone who has a 3D Graphics card, it will definitely make the experience a lot better.What are you prepared to do?
Pros:
Very enjoyable game
Pretty good graphics(despite eyes are white)
5 fatalities a pop, more than mortal combat
Very good rap tracks
good voice acting in FMVs
Devistating combos that can dish out mad damage
Rage meter definitly helps
Suprisingly good for a game that didn't get much praise from sites
Cons:
Story mode (especially in China) gets real repetitive
Some fatalities stink(like decks first fatalitiy)
Ghost, and Masta don't support their voices
I never herd of this game, until my brother brought it over, and I was hooked.  I got everything for him, and yet he didn't even let me borrow the game(One stingy brother)  But I got it not far after, and now I'm still enjoying it from time to time.  If you love mortal Combat, or like wu-tang, this is sure not to dissapoint.
Final Words:This game is definitly a game that lives up to not only the wu-tang name, but a mortal kombat, with a Tekken style looking game.  And that's what also cought my eye as well.
Peacespace invaders for the n64 does a great job of taking something old and making it new again. the game is good and but it still only provides little variance on the space invaders formula. if you like space invaders though, this game gives further depth to the original. i would recommend this game to anyone familiar with the original. if not don't bother.WarCraft 2 is a legendary game made by Blizzard, a big gaming company as of now.  The game when it came out had everything and was a start of a brand new kind of game play.  Now with THIS edition though you can play on  the internet, which was something many people wanted for some time.  The  races of 2 arn't nearly as strategic as StarCraft, its following great  achiever, due to the facts that the Orcs and Humans in the game play are  almost identical.  The only real difference is the spells, and the way the  units look.
There is 2 reasons that I think you should buy this over  StarCraft... One is that it has two GREAT previews of the upcoming game  WarCraft 3 and the game Diablo 2.  The other reason is that not everyone  can afford computers that are incredibly fast.  So if you can not play  StarCraft very quickly and it goes slow on b.net for you, then WarCraft2 is  something you must buy because it will work much more effectively."Railroad Tycoon II" is the 1998 sequel to the 1990 classic "Sid Meier's Railroad Tycoon". Even though Sid's name has jumped ship, this is a solid sequel to a great game. The premise is simple enough: Build a railroad, buy some trains, ship stuff from where it is to where it's needed. Get rich.
From humble concepts mighty games are grown, and enriching this basic idea are things like: train quality, which forces you to choose between [cost], fast, good on slopes, or reliable; keeping demand high by supplying only small amounts versus the cost of connecting other places where demand is high; short routes with small payloads and fast turnarounds versus long routes with big payloads; buying and selling stocks to take advantage of economic trends; buying the businesses whose materials you're transporting; defending against train robbers or hiring shady characters and exploiting legal loopholes; and so on.
Basically, this premise works, and supplies hours of good, addictive fun. There's a lot of replay value as well, since you can take a different approach to each game. The graphics are (still, even in 2003) pleasant and communicative, and the sound is mostly good. The scenarios are pretty challenging without (for the most part) being crushingly hard, and the three levels of victories encourages replay as you try to "go for the gold".
The are a number of hitches, unfortunately. The manual and tutorial are really inadequate--which tends to sting given that most of the fan-supplied data on the Web is gone. The supply-and-demand process is actually somewhat opaque. (I did figure it out, but it took me a while and some research on the 'net.) Your board of directors is very gullible, not able to look ahead even a month (this makes them easy to manipulate). The stock market stuff makes it easy to lose with a thriving railroad and doesn't add much to the game that I've experienced.
Further, trains really only go from point A to point B. That is, say you have cattle yard (B) that needs grain and two grain farms (A1 and A2) that supply grain, you can't set up a train to pick up grain at A1, travel to A2 to pick up more grain, and then travel to B to drop it off. When the train stops, it's completely unloaded. This is never spelled out anywhere, and certain ways of setting up a train's route suggest otherwise. But in the above situation, your train will actually unload grain at a grain farm (for no money) rather than haul it another ten miles to the cattle yard, where it's actually needed.
The scale of the game is such that each train moves about 1/50th-1/100th of its actual speed. In other words, a trip that should take a week takes a year. This is probably a necessary abstraction(train-model fans will want to keep in mind that this game has NOTHING to do with their hobby) but it has the effect of exaggerating every mistake or mishap. Jesse James didn't just rob a single train, he robbed your entire route for the year.
All of this detracts a bit, but it's a testament to the strength of the concept and execution that this would still be a five-star game, even with these issues. The killer--the thing that made me subtract a star--is the track-laying interface. It's really easy to lay track you didn't mean to. There's no undo. It actually costs you to remove it. The way the UI figures out the smoothest route is dubious, and there's really no decent handling for the fact that finding the smoothest track is best done at the closest zoom while finding the shortest route is best done at the furthest zoom.
Coupled with some bugs that make stations seem disconnected, you can end up in a situation where you lose a game because the track-laying interface was not up to the task. And that's the only =real= sour lemon in this package. Again, though, even with this, there's still a lot of fun.
It'll definitely whet your apetite for "Railroad Tycoon 3".I just got the game a few days ago included in a value pack. I am currently playing the campaigns and so far I am enjoying the game. Even my husband is playing it.
Pros: Sim type game
Different type of trains and several campaigns which I love
Is challenging for an average game player don't know about hardcore players
Con's: The game tutorial was okay, but wish I could find a way to start back at the beginning of it. When my husband wanted to play I had to tell him how to do it instead of him doing the tutorial because it wouldn't start back at the beginning
Other than that I don't know of any other cons since I have just started playing and haven't started the scenerios.
You do get tired of laying down tracks all the time, and have to zoom in and out.
So far I am really enjoying itPros:
1. This game is exactly like being in the middle of a Star Trek episode. You play a Star Fleet Cadet who's father was killed during the Borg encounter at Wolf 359. You are offered the chance to go back in time shortly before the battle to see if you can change history. As soon as you accept the challenge, you are transported to the bridge of a starship as the crew prepares to engage the Borg. You have the uncanny, poignant experience of watching the father you scarcely knew as he interacts with his shipmates, tries to save his friends, and bravely prepares for a battle he is doomed to lose.
2. I haven't played many Full Motion Video (FMV) games, but I thought this one was very well done. The acting is as good as that on any Star Trek episode; the Borg are horrifying and menacing; and Q is in magnificent form, as usual. It was great fun to have Q chastise and insult you in the same sarcastic way he uses with Picard or Janeway.
3. The puzzles are well-integrated into the story, and allow you to use some of the equipment and consoles that you've always wanted to try. I did not consider the bulk of the puzzles to be particularly difficult, although they do require some out-of-the-box thinking. There are lots of alternate endings in this game: most of them start with your demise, after which there is a commentary from Q as to the "efficacy" of your efforts.
Cons:
1. The game plays a lot like a movie, with certain decision points at which you choose how to act (these moments are clearly signaled in the game). There were enough of these to make it feel pretty interactive, but not nearly so many as in a traditional graphic adventure.
2. When a decision point occurs, the game will not respond if you click too quickly. In order for your decision to register, you must hold the mouse down firmly for a second or two.
3. I would have liked the game to be a little longer (though in the ongoing tension between length and quality, I'll take quality any day). Actually, I would have liked the game to be a LOT longer. Truthfully, I would have liked the game never to end...
Bottom Line: A Must-Have for any Trekker, or anyone who enjoys FMV adventures.Pros-
Priced right at just $15 for jewel case.
Still very popular with hundreds of potential opponents online.
Balanced weaponry, no one unit or structure rules.
Huge variety of maps and missions.
Easy to use map editor.
Additional games online such as capture the flag.
Game rarely lags or runs choppy even with 2v2 and 3v3 games.
Doesn't require much computer or a top video card.
Everything is on just one disc.
Cons-
Cartoonish graphics are a bit dated.
Gameplay, while easy to learn can be tiring and out dated.
Over all warcraft 2 is still a great game and loads of fun. I had known about this game for a long time and finally decided to pick up the $20 version which also provides you with a strategy guide. An exellent value! I heartily recommend this game because you know what you're getting. The concept is ok with the humans v the orcs but almost all my time with this game is one on one multiplayer. You don't have to go to battlenet.com you can also play a buddy modem to modem. How you begin the game depends on the map but usually you start with one peon or builder and a certain amount of resources. You will always need a certain number of farms to feed your people as well as a steady supply of gold and wood. Wood is everywhere but there are a limited number of gold mines and it is around these that you will build your camps. Most of your military will come from a barricks and you make more peons from a town hall. You'll need a blacksmith and lumber mill to upgrade your troops(swordsman,archers,catapults ect.) and from that point you can add specialty forces such as gnomes, mages and flying birds that crap explosive eggs. Note that i'm referring to the human race because i play that all the time. The orcs are very different and frankly quite weird. One of their units for example is a huge beast with two heads that only uses it's fists as a weapon. Both races can make a cool spy plane and a fairly complete navy as well as towers that can be upgraded to shoot cannons or arrows. Oil is another resource that's needed to make some more advanced units.  A lot of strategy is required because maps are very crowded with many narrow passage ways. Some maps even start you off completely surrounded by trees so you can't go anywhere untill you cut down a path. I like those maps because it prevents quick attacks.
Game play is fairly easy to learn. You just click on a building and the unit you want to build. It's easy to order your units to fight or where to go but you can only control 15 units at a time. The biggest negative about this game is that you can't queue up your barricks to produce more than one unit at a time. This can make the game a bit too busy and tiring and requires you to have several barricks. For example to maintain a steady source of resources you may need two main camps and one smaller one surrounding gold mines. That means probably at least 5 barricks, three town halls as well as at least one gnomish inventor and aviary and a navy or two. Considering you will have at least a couple dozen peons gathering resources and building farms it becomes a contest of who can point and click the fastest as you constantly move from building to building while trying to control your military units. A lot of work. Too bad blizzard hasn't added the multi queing feature which exists in age of empires gold and just about any newer game. Maybe there is a mod that can be downloaded to ad this feature but it is not available here. For that reason i only give the game 4* but it still makes for plenty of good clean fun for very little money.
.............socksBrought this game for myself, it brought back memories when I was 6 playing this all summer long. Game came as described and fast also.Five yrs ago, the toughest SNK superstars faced off in tag-team action in the excellent arcade game KOF 94. Now the series is back, but it hasn't learned anything new. The KOF:DM99(man that's a long title!)chugs away with  tired fighting mechanics and subpar graphics. King features characters from Fatal Fury and Art of Fighting. The fights are fun, but you still can't change characters during a match. Technically King's loaded with deficencies, most notably choppy, slowdown-filled 2D sprite graphics. For a part of an essentially 16 bit game to a 128 bit system, these flaws are inexcuseable and baffling. It's nice that the DC isn't limiting itself to polygon-only 3D fighting titles. But compared to Marvel vs. Capcom, Dream is a nightmare.I've been playing the Comanche game series since version 1 in the DOS days.  I know these games better than anyone who's written any of these reviews.  Comanche Gold is nothing more than Comanche 3, only upgraded to a Windows version and with new missions added.  The engine is the same, settings are the same, graphics are the same (but with increased resolution), sound is the same, and wingman and enemy AI is the same (though they claimed it was vastly improved).  Now many years old, this game is still fantastic and one of the best helo sims you can get for multiple reasons:

Flight Model:  The flight model is as complex or accurate as you want it - or as dumbed down and "Nintendo" as you want it.  Many settings are at your disposal.  If you have full HOTAS and rudder pedals, you can change the many control settings to be very accurate.  Top notch compared to others.  I can also run this game on a 133MHz Pentium I pulled out of mothballs or on the latest, greatest P4s with gigabytes of RAM, and the helo flies the same without speeding up or becoming unrealistic.  That's how well the engine and flight model were written.  I will even dare say that the flight model feels better and more solid than the otherwise vastly superior Comanche 4.

AI:  The AI for enemies and wingmen in Comanche 3 (for DOS) was not very realistic, but very adequate for the game.  Nova Logic claims to have vastly improved on it for Comanche Gold.  I will state that it is much better now, but still not perfect.  I will simply call it "adequate" and "average".  To this day, however, I still have yet to see ANY game - whatsoever - with a truly realistic enemy AI.  They're getting closer, but still have a long way to go.

Compatibility:  This version of Comanche can be played on ANY 32-bit Windows box ever built, and on any version of Windows from 95 to 64-bit XP.  It's beautiful in it's simplicity in that it doesn't require any special hardware.  It even runs great on old laptops.  :-)

Graphics:  Fantastic for not being 3D accellerated.  Nova Logic got lots of mileage out of its Voxel Space graphics engine.  It was pure frickin' magic in its day.  Comanche 3 had only 640X480 resolution.  This versin, however, allows you to use 640X480 or kick it up to 600X800, which noticeably improves the graphics quality and resolution in the game.

Sound:  Comanche 3 for DOS was 100% Dolby Surround - not bad for a DOS game from 1996.  Comanche Gold's sound, however, is limited only by what kind of sound system you have connected to your PC.  Comanche Gold also boasts the most realistic in-game dialog sequences you're gonna hear.  In-game dialog is an area where nearly every game I've ever heard fails miserably, with the cheesiest sounding scripts ever written that are read in the dumbest, most unrealistic way possible.  That's the NORM in the gaming world.  The Comanche series, however - as well as every other Nova Logic game - gets it right.

Environment/Landscape:  Nova Logic did something with the Comanche series that nobody else ever did and still have yet to do with a helo sim:  TREES.  Longbow, Enemy Engaged, etc?  Yawn, snore.  I couldn't believe Longbow II was so terribly done.  Without trees and cool landscape items to hide behind, a helo sim is utterly worthless and completely deafeats the very purpose of being in a helo in the first place.  Once again, Noval Logic gets it right.  Trees, nooks, crannies, gullies, etc.  The best landscape a rotor jockey could ever hope for is found in Comanche Gold.  What good is sneaking around and flying nap-of-the-earth if you're still out in the open with no trees and gullies to zig-zag throgh?  You are even able to hide behind and between not only trees but BOULDERS in this game.  Comanche Gold is untouched by any other rival in this category - with the possible exception of Comanche 4.

Fun factor:  One thing Nova Logic has been able to do that nearly no other game manufacturer has ever been able to do on a consistent basis is FUN FACTOR.  They have always provided a well-balanced game in terms of simulation complexity vs fun factor.  You do not want a sim so realistic that you spend all your time getting shot down because you're fighting controls that are way too complex.  You also don't want to feel like you're playing a little kiddie game that has no realism at all.  Comanche series has always been the perfect balance of realism, complexity and fun factor.  You get to fly a realistic chopper and blow a whole bunch of stuff apart, and with as much or as little complexity as you want.  There are reviews in here that say the game is both too hard and too easy.  I rest my case.

Multiplayer:  I have played this game in multiplayer mode more times than anyone else I know.  It is fantastic.  It is here that the fun factor truly comes to light.  I know the game has passed into history to the extent that you won;t find huge numbers playing it online anymore.  Maybe there's folks playing it on Kali still (it truly deserves to be).  One thing I'll say is this: multiplayer functionality was always fantastic and worked very well.  We never had any problems with it.

Out of the many years that Comanche 3 and Gold have given me in faithful service and countless hours of fun, the least I could do is write up an article that would somehow convey my gratitude for this game.  Comanche Gold and Comanche 4 are the two helo sims that I live for to this day.

Please read both of my reviews of Comanche 4 as well, written under both this name here and also "Highwinder", the name I used for the most recent review, both of which are here on Amazon.  Just search for Comanche 4.

5 stars for fun factor, 4 stars for adequate but dated technology, and wingman/enemy AI that, though improved and adequate, could have been improved even more.ever since I bought USAF I was like great but I need a Sim for a chopper.  Comanche Gold suited my needs, this sim has good graphics, runs on most PC's and has over 80 missions.  You can contol everything from altitude  hold to extending and retracting the Cargo bay doors.
Let me tell you  about this chopper, it has the latest stealth techonolegy, the Radar sig.  is 600X smaller than the AH-64 Apache.  If you hover at 60ft. no one will  see you.  This isn't bad for $19.  When I bought this I was wondering what  was the catch... Truth is no catch.The original Tomb Raider was a landmark game for the Playstation and the start of a very long running series. It holds up well, but is a definite acquired taste.

Tomb Raider begins with adventurer and treasure huntress Lara Croft being hired by business woman Jacqueline Natla to search an ancient cavern in Peru for a piece of the Scion, an ancient talisman of great power. However, after finding the piece, Lara is betrayed by Jacqueline's men. Now it's a race across the world to find the remaining pieces of the Scion before Jacqueline attains its mythical power. Tomb Raider is an early Playstation game, and unfortunately the graphics haven't aged very well. Although many set pieces in the game are very impressive all the levels tend to feel very samey. Despite this the game's length is impressive. There are over fifteen massive levels with hidden caches of ammo and first aid packs, giving you a great sense of exploration throughout the game. Lara moves in a very stiff fashion. Her controls are tank-like and You have to hold down a button for her to walk. She takes very long jumps, but running jumps have a delay that requires you to plan your jumps ahead of time in most cases. Fortunately there is a training mission where Lara instructs you on how to play in her home. The game is primarily a puzzle platformer. Each level contains a series of puzzles that will test your problem solving skills.

Scattered throughout the many ruins and caves are vicious animals and hired goons all chomping at the bit to impede your progress. This is where combat comes into play. Lara starts off the game with twin pistols that have unlimited ammo. Through out the game you will find a variety of firearms, however these weapons do have limited ammo, but the pistols ensure you will always have a fighting chance in battle.
The last gameplay feature to talk about is the process of saving your game. The PC version of the game allowed the player to quicksave wherever they wanted. The console versions of the game on Playstation and Sega Saturn do not have this luxury. You can only save with the use of crystals that are placed along the path you are intended to follow. Unfortunately, once a crystal is used it is gone. This makes it really difficult when you've got a very long stretch ahead of you and not much health. Some areas have multiple crystals forcing you to carefully plan how often you save.

This game has many flaws, but it is a very rewarding experience. I would recommend the game for those expecting a challenge. The later games in the Tomb Raider series ironed out many of the issues experienced here. If you're curious about the beginning of the franchise you won't be disappointed, but maybe a little stressed.

For classic PC gamers I'd recommend Tomb Raider: Unfinished Business. This is the original game plus two bonus missions with two new levels a piece.I love the delta force games, I just wish they didn't let people cheat. Go buy the newest one!I bought one of these back when the N64 was still a modern console, and I just bought another one on Amazon. Obviously, I think this product is pretty adequate since I bought two of them. But here's some additional detail:

Pros: The bundle comes with both a rumble pak and a controller pak (or memory card). How cool is that? If you're buying stuff off of Amazon, it saves you about four dollars in shipping fees. What's better is how cheap the Tremor Pak Plus is now. If you snoop around, you can get this bundle new for the price you'd pay for a either individual product by itself!

As for the actual rumbling, it works pretty awesomely. I've tried it out on Perfect Dark and Madden 99 so far. It's got high and low settings. True N64 players use high for maximum vibration! :)

The memory card is the same size as the controller pak Nintendo originally made. Alas, it is not bundled with some of the larger memory cards that InterAct produced. But most games will easily fit onto the 123-page card.

Cons: The Tremor Pak Plus is both larger and heavier than the Rumble Pak produced by Nintendo, not to mention the original Tremor Pak produced by InterAct. This is because it has an additional slot to stick a memory card into the Tremor Pak. Presumably, InterAct thought people would like it, since it allowed them to use a controller pak and a rumble pak at the same time. Nice thought on their part, but the original Tremor Pak is, as a consequence, much sleeker and even more desirable than this improved version.

In summation, I sort of wish Interact had just given us a bundle with the original Tremor Pak and a 123-page memory card, as opposed to this bulky contraption with a slot. Even so, I'd totally recommend this bundle to anyone whose interested in the gracefully aged console that is the N64.I order this a few days ago and it came no longer than three. The memory card is what I mainly wanted and the rumble pak. I'll just let anyone who plays as the fourth player can use it because I had three rumble paks for my other controllers before this order, but no memory card yet. When I order this it said like new and guess what! It actually came brand new sealed in the hard plastic that normally takes scissors to cut. I like this seller because they mean what they say. I also ordered this in the used section which is also weird (I still got it new but im sure you know that). Like most people said the rumble pak is kinda more heavier, but im not even going to use it anyway because again I already have a rumble pak for my other controllers. The only thing I really hate about the rumble is that all rumble paks I own take triple (AAA) batteries. The problem with that is batteries run out. I do have some advice for some people purchasing this. If you want a rumble pak try to find rechargable triple (AAA) batteries if you can. By the way the memory card can also be used alone without the rumble pak. It should of been powered in the controller though. I guess thats old school for you.This game is pretty cool
The mini games are fun...I love em'..The questions are a little....eeeyy lets skip that one...The game is overall very fun...I was addicted to this game at some point....Me n' friends would have a blast playing this game...Anyone who loves South park will enjoy this game.
Though I doulbt You can get this game since it's out of print.  I guess you can get it used if you can find it.
Over all it's pretty fun but it's alittle inapropraite for little ones...
I liked it though...
Later...Those out there who decide to play a game based solely on the hype it creates, no doubt know how cool The Final Fantasies and The Lunar series are.  But if you skipped over this one just because it did not create the Final fantasy type of hype prior to it's release, you missed something special.
When I picked up Suikoden, it was a slow night, and just about everything else I wanted to rent was out.  When I first played it, I was slightly ambivolent in my decision as to whether or not It was a cool game.  The opening intro, with it's soulful choir, gripping and excellently composed music, and great still pics of the games scenes and cast, blow's away almost every tune in the final fantasy audio library.  Heck, Andrew Loyed Webber or John Williams would be hard pressed to do better.  But upon entering the game, things seemed to be... only average.  Though the story was good, and the dialouge was well written, and there were powerful and very funny scenes early on, it lacked Final fantasy's epic atmosphere.  Also, the opening is the games audio highlight.  Don't expect it to get any better then that.  But what Suikoden II lacks in atmosphere, it makes up for in substance.  The charachter's are written in such a way that even the most fantastic and unreal scenarios seem believable.  From Luca Blight's savagery and cruelty, to Shu's strategic brilliance, to Jowry's desparate measures that he takes to protect those he loves, every moment is very believable and real.
Also helping the game is the number of secrets and sidequests that there are.  It's here that Suikoden shines, there are limitless quests, charachter's, mini-games, and hidden items for you to find and do.  Giving the Game Unrivaled depth
This game is a heavy hitter.  There's no doubt about that, but I liked the final fantasies better.  They just have a way of grabbing you by the heart strings that Suikoden Rarely achives.  It's still one of the most awesome Rpg's out there, and I do reccommend it to anyone who's already completed Chrono Cross or Final fantasy IX.  With a little more tweaking, Suikoden III will be able to hang with those big RPG bad boyz.This game fetches for hundreds of dollars nowadays, but with that said, this is a pretty good game. You have a plot that interconnects with 108 different characters that can be recruited at their perspective times, but unless you are a completionist, you will be extremely disappointed in the ending you will get. Now, whether or not you want to spend $100 on this is entirely up to you. I spent it, and I felt I somewhat got my money's worth, but at the same time, a little disappointed that I spent this much on a game, but oh well, there is worse, like $400 for Panzer Dragoon Saga. Anyways, just like with any other Suikoden entry, you can go to war with the kingdom whom the main character is opposing with, and use all kinds of tactics in battle that will determine your fate. The story is pretty solid, and the character development is also quite solid as well, and you have a lot of lush, beautiful environments to traverse through, with a world map. Overall, this game is good, but be prepared to drop a fraction of your wallet if you want this.This was not a cheap game, but it's rare, so I was expecting that. I wish it had the case, but I'm sure that was part of the reason it was so cheap. Either way, the game is in great condition.Fans of the series will tell you its worth the money it's going for but I think if you missed Suikoden II, you missed it.  Suikoden 3 is better afterall.  Even the reviewers will tell you.  I'm not saying this is a bad game, it was actualy a very good one, but it's not worth shelling out 150 dollars for.It does what it says it will. Doesn't come unplugged unexpectedly or anything.Works just fine.  So far I haven't had any issues with the product.  Most likely I'll be buying two more to complete my set.Quite the little breakthrough when this game came out, although on the surface one would not really know why..Yes the graphics are especially nice for the time, the tone is decidedly dark, and the plot is  unusual, but what players became facinated by was the development of the story and how it related to your gameplay..More game makers should take the cues that psychology plays in this game, as it offers an entirely new, less restrictive playground for the seasoned player to venture off into.._Sanitarium_ opens with a movie:  a man on his way home from work calls his wife with the news that he has "the answer."  Next thing you know, his car flies off the road. He wakes up in an institution, his face swathed in bandages, with no idea who he is, where he is or how he got there.  Of course, this is exactly what he -- and you as the player -- must now find out.
_Sanitarium_ is a really great, old-style, 3rd person adventure game that combines an intriguing story with interesting puzzles, a spooky atmosphere and pretty decent graphics for its time. In its nine levels you visit various parts of the asylum, a huge insect hive, a scary circus and other places, all steeped in the main character's personal mythology.  Each level not only has its own internal continuity, but is connected to the larger story by threads of symbol and dream logic.  I found this fascinating and extremely well done.  It was one of the things that kept me wanting to play even when it was late at night and my eyes couldn't focus any more--something I haven't experienced with a game in a while.
The puzzles are a pretty good variety:  some inventory, some conversation, some mechanical.  Most are pretty easy once you find what you're looking for, but there are a couple of frustrating pixel hunts where it's possible to miss the one thing you need to move on.  Also, sometimes the inventory, which flashes when it can be used, has to be positioned in exactly the right place.  There are also a few action sequences and you can die.  Usually I really object to this in adventure games, but _Sanitarium_ handles the action the way it should be handled:  the sequences are pretty straightforward, if you die you get to start again at the beginning of the sequence without going through a tedious "You failed" ending sequence or reloading from page one, you have infinite lives, and the pieces of the puzzle you have managed to solve STAY solved, so you don't have to repeat what you've already done over and over.  Take a tip from this, game designers!
Navigation is a little awkward to start -- you interact using the left mouse button and move using the right -- but you get used to that quickly enough. The main problem is that the character can get sucked into things like stairs, so you spend a lot of time going back and forth (or I did, anyway).  Another problem is that sometimes you have to have your character in exactly the right spot before he'll do what he's supposed to.  If he's not close enough he'll say "I can't do that (or some variation thereof)."  Except for sometimes, when he'll walk over and complete the action on his own.  I found no rhyme or reason to this and it got a bit annoying in places.
The graphics are mid-nineties graphics:  3rd person, 2-D.  So if you can't appreciate a game that doesn't have all the latest bells and whistles, you won't appreciate this one. There are some really gruesome scenes, not for the faint of heart or stomach. The voice acting is mostly pretty good but in some places character voices were hard to understand.  There are subtitles, though, so that wasn't a problem.  Other sound f/x were well-done, being suited to the various environments yet not too repetetive or demanding of attention.
I completed _Sanitarium_ in about 30 hours.  If I had a complaint it was that the ending was a little rushed and I felt that all the gaps in the story hadn't been filled in.  Still, compared to the bulk of games that are being released today, this is a great find and a worthwhile buy!  If you like older adventures, _Sanitarium_ is a must.This game brought back a lot of fun memories that I had as a kid. The only thing I can say is that you will have a hard time playing this if you do not have a playstation controller with an analog stick. The controls are EXTREMELY difficult. I'm not sure if im just used to the modern age stuff or if the controls are supposed to be like that. Anyway good luck.I was feeling nostalgic so I bought this game along with a few others to relive my childhood. It's as much fun as I remember! A bit repetitive, as there are only a few levels and most are quick, but it's definitely entertaining the whole time. Totally worth the buy!I ordered this game a few months ago and my son beat this game in one hour.  This is not the game for you if you are over the age of 5.  The game would just be too easy. If you have a son or daughter under 5 years, they might like it.

The game is about when Tommy loses his puzzle pieces, so with the help of his friends, he has to go get them back.  This game has 12 missions that ranges from getting a cereal box in a store to getting your grandpa's teeth from a goose.  They are really funny, especially in Grandpa's Teeth when Chuckies yells Hellllllllllllllllp! in a Texan accent.

These game's graphics are good for its time.

The sound is very great and very bad at the same time.

Overall this game is real good and I recommend it to anyone who has little kids who like Rugrats.This game is awesome. I remember getting this game and being extremely excited because it was Rugrats. This really IS a great Rugrats game; the best that has came out. In this game, you can play golf, and even walk around Tommy's entire house and backyard. This is a great game that is a lot like the show. Rugrats in Paris The Movie for teh N64 has got nothing on this game. Buy this for anyone that is a fan of the show.

8.3/10WWE WM 2000 is a great game with tons of matches..
When I first got this It was around the time it first came out.
Man this game is awesome.  They steel cage match, Hardcore match, and I can't remember but I think they had first blood?...I think...I don't remember.
The graphics were good for it's time.  Gameplay was quick which is a good thing.  It is also the first N64 game to have blood in a WWE game.
My favorite match is the steel cage.  It's sooo fun but I wish they had a Hell in The Cell match.
gameplay 5/5
matches 4/5
graphics..for its time..5/5
4.5 out of 5
Later...Your trying to stop alien clones from taking over the world. yattta .. yatta.
There are 2 modes.  Adventure\Explore where you go through the complex looking for the ones responsible.  And the other is battle mode.
Battle mode is where it gets all my stars.  I love the selection of moves you learn.  The indepth way to accuratly take out your foe is impressive.  Every type of kick and punch, also up to 4(or was it 5) combos.  Holding moves(front and back).  Reversals, and lying down moves.
This is a fight feast galore.  With rping stats.  Many attributes to level up(arm,legs,etc).  In fact every move you use will level up and be stronger.
Good game, good story, nice sound effects.  People that bad mouth this game, either didn't give it enough time. Or just can't handle something orginal.  Or maybe the people that like this game are of a mold of a different gamer?
Bottomline: There is no game out there with more moves then this.
And with that, If you like fighting games and don't mind the rp syle battle mode then its difintely deserves to be in your game libary. I don't find the battle mode constricting or reduce the fun in anyway.Got it for my son's Sega, works great does what it's supposed to do, fits perfectly into the TV and the Sega!From the ruins of Rome to the futuristic setting of Atlantis, Tomb Raider takes the gamer through a variety of wonderful worlds.  Unlike its sequels, it stays in the tombs and out of other settings.  I believe that it is one of the best games ever made, and it certainly is a classic.  However, I believe that its sequels in many aspects overshadow it.
The scenery in Tomb Raider is better than most games, although it is mostly cubed and flat.  The game play and plot are wonderful, and the graphics and sounds are acceptable.  However, the artificial intelligence enemies are less than intelligent, and the gamer is often left feeling underestimated with the ease of some of the puzzles.  Laura's moves are limited, and the weapons supply is less than perfect.
I would recommend this game to any fan of the Tomb Raider series and to the average gamer.  However, I do feel that other versions have better qualities.  Tomb Raider II offers wonderful AI and is perhaps the best for a gamer seeking combat. Tomb Raider III combines the better aspects of the previous two, and Tomb Raider: The Last Revelation offers the best plot and character mobility.  If you are looking to stay in the tombs, or if you are not into puzzles, stick with this game.  However, don't miss out on the other great qualities the Tomb Raider series offers.Why is everyone upset with this game? I'm not sure, but I'm not one of them. I guess everyone expected alot more than the original Total Annihilation and what they got was something designed a little better. Maybe a little too pretty. Here is what the game has going for it. Excellent detail to the each unit, building, and the surrounding terrain. A good story. Units with special attack features and some of these are really cool. The gameplay is pretty good also. The on-line gaming at boneyards. This is where the game really excels and is probably more competitive. What could've been better? The soundtrack wasn't very good. There was too much quietness when playing. And in some of the battles, the only way in was a narrow passage where only 2 units could stand side by side. the computer would just pack this passage way and it would take forever to get in (it took me over 7 hours on 2 such battles towards the end of the game). I would probably rate this closer to 3 1/2 stars, but I did enjoy this game. Lots of different characters and some pretty good battles.This was a curiosity purchase that sat for awhile.  I finally fired it up on an XP machine.  Do get the upgrade if you can find it.

There are 48 scenerios in the self play.  The AI is ok.  If you are a defensive player, you will like this game.

The scenerios range from what feels like a demo of new features.  For example, when the cannons first appear, you get one scenerio defending a pass.  I didn't ahve to do anything as the cannon fire wiped out that attackers that kept charging into the guns.

The hardest scenero for me was vengence.  You are warned to set up before detecting and it is true.  I got noticed and was swarmed.  I built of up defenses in order to build the army.  Unfortunatly, the AI dug in rather well and it took a constant barrage of air armadas of dragons and fairies to defeat the well placed towers.  Each tower was coverd by the others.

The GUI can get annoying as if you don't pay attention and click you will send units or builders in a direction you didn't intend.

The gold dragon was a fun introduction.  Though I will admit it made the fighting easier.

The story line is good.  However, you will switch between sides during the play.  It gets a little strange at times as you invade and set up a base.  Then the next scenerio you play the otherside and are supposed to destroy the base.

Overall it's not a bad game.  Especially at current prices.

I am going ot look for the addon.I see alot of people on here griping and nitpicking about what this game has and doesn't have.  Is it something groundbreaking? Nah...  Is it something that hasn't been done before? Nah... Is it still a pretty darn nifty game?  you betcha!  It's a RTS, period, and all RTS games seem to suffer universally from similar ailments.  These being certain tactics, units, et al that are very powerful, yada yada... just play it!  I happen to think the graphics are pretty darn nice myself, and the elevation changes are quite good as well. FOUR sides to choose from gives a nice variety of units and such.  Not alot to be said, some things could have been done better, but it's a cool game.  I think, however, that the "super units" could be all together bypassed if Cavedog and other Designers (Blizzard for instance) would adopt the Tech Level variable, a la Command & Conquer, for multiplay games.  Sometime I wana just batten down and have an all-out slug fest with the basic 'grunt' units in the game. All the upper-level stuff is cool, but it really does detract from the fun of the game(s) because there's no strategy involved in dropping a Nuke/Magic Death Spell/Whatever, on your opponent. Anyhow, I ramble, hehehe, did I mention this is a good game and you should buy it?Even as a 31 year old man, this game can still creep the crap out of me.  Happy as all heck to have it again.classic. total classic. had to see where the series began and i gotta say its one of the best titles in the series thus far next to #2.I have played all of the main Silent Hill games, but I didn't own this game until a few years ago. Recently, I decided to finish it and see how it really held up. At first, I wasn't so sure how well it held up, but the more I played, the better it got.

A big difference with this game in comparison to the later ones is that the psychological aspects are less well-defined. As a result, it feels less cohesive than the later games. That's not to say that it doesn't have sad or scary moments, though. It definitely has those (more the latter than the former), but is held back by the dated technology and bad voice acting. I actually still like the graphics because the distinctly rusted and bloody design of the parallel world shines through, and there are some fine textures and special lighting effects. The more realistic prerendered cutscenes still hold up well. A unique aspect of these scenes is that they have no dialog whatsoever, which was an artistic challenge that paid off in conveying the characters' emotions better than the unearthly voice acting could.

The voice acting is not very good. Some of the actors seem miscast, and suffer from uneven performances. It doesn't detract too much from the experience, but can trigger eye rolls in more cynical audiences.

The music is less distinct than later games, and favors some very odd, disturbing tracks (such as "My Heaven"; go ahead, look it up on YouTube! >:D) that are less melodic and more industrial. On the other hand, from the weapons to the monsters to the environmental noise, the sound effects fit the game very well. They serve to make Silent Hill seem more alive.

As for the gameplay, it's decent, if not as tight as the Resident Evil games of the time. I enjoyed fighting more than the puzzles, which I always found a bit too hard and obscure (just wait until you hit the infamous Zodiac-themed puzzle). If the puzzles annoy you, just hit up GameFAQs for the solutions. It's worth it to get past them.

The controls were a little confusing since I'm more used to later survival horror games, and I sometimes found myself awkwardly readying my weapon when I wanted to strafe. The game is a little tight with healing supplies, but not ammo; I wish I had used my firearms more.

I found that this game was scary, but not as much as the later games were, and in a different way. It relies more on "jump scares" and doesn't instill quite as much consistent dread. I was pleasantly surprised to still find some of the monsters scary and shocking, which I can't say for later games, on the other hand.

The story was always hard to understand, and depending on what ending you unlock, will be even harder to comprehend. It lacks thematic cohesion, and I always found it to be one of the lesser Silent Hill tales. Luckily, the game has a lot of replay value, and was made with multiple playthroughs in mind.

Ultimately, Silent Hill holds up, but not as well as Silent Hill 2. It's still a classic in its genre with a great setting and levels, but if you can't get past the dated presentation, you can knock a star off of this review.

Mine was a used copy that arrived complete and in a condition that is comparable to a new copy.Fighting Force was the wanna-be "Streets Of Rage" for PlayStation. If you grew up in the 90's and owned a Sega you'll know what I'm talking about. The game had tons of flaws such as the lo-fidelity sound effects (sssshhhhheeeewwwmmm) and the blocky PC-like design of the characters. Heck, it looked like a Windows 95 platform game.

There are four characters to choose from : two chicks, a big giant and the handsome one. They each have their own moves but have serious shortcomings. Smasher can take a lot of damage and deal it too; but he's slow as a mule. Hawk is a decent fighter but is open to a lot of hits. Alana and Mace are both quick (alana moreso) but are weak and fragile.

The game was unduly hard due to the overhaul of the game's engine. Back then, games overloaded easily especially if they were not rendered correctly. The load times on this game tell you there's a lot of extra space here. An obvious pitfall is when there are many enemies/items on the screen it evokes slow command response but ONLY from players' controllers (remember trying to grab a guy and your player executes an 'air grab' 1 second after you press the button?). This resulted in getting beat up from 5 or more directions and having a briefcase hurled at your head. Not fun. Items were also a bother as you found that punching a guy mysteriously involved you picking up a crate first. Then you got kicked in the shin and you dropped the crate as two more guys fired shots at you and you're spinning through the air. Fun! Yet when you want to pull a pole off the wall you instead invoke a reverse backhand that misses and makes you look like an idiot. And for that ugly move sir you get a pipe to the face.

You eventually either get frustrated with the game or you learn to live with it. The game experience for me is always bitter sweet because even though I've learned to live with the quirks they still get in my way. The game gets progressively harder as you advance through the levels and sometimes you white knuckle your controller to keep from using a continue (which, by the way starts you over on the level...totally bogus!). When you finally DO finish the game it seems underwhelming. You'll see what I mean when you finish it.

All in all, despite its obvious and frustrating flaws, the game is still a classic. If you don't own it you owe it to yourself to take a trip back in time. Re-live the polygonal loading-screen glory!!being the survivla horror fan I am, I have to start by saying that if you happen to see this at a discount store, or bargen bin, pick it up, and hold it close, as the game has become very rare in many areas of the world. This was Konami's answer to Capcom's Resident Evil, and still is one of the most popular horror games today. The game, unlike REsident Evil ,or many other horror games, chooses to scare you in a more mental, quiet sense (not to say resident evil is bad, I'm mearly saying SH and RE are very different form one another). The game is not for the faint of heart, or those with out a healthy ammount of patience, as the game focuses mainly on puzzle soving and exploration. although the graphics are dated by today's standards, this is easilly overlooked once you start playing. Although the game offers a fantasic story, and haunting atmosphere, I highly recomend Silent Hill 2 over the orrigional, as it has better controlls, smoother visuals, and an even better story. I have played many horror games, and believe me when I say that this one and it's sequels stand out amongst the rest, and shoud be added to any games collection. Silent hill is not a game to miss.Before SIlent Hill was released, all we horror gamers had to scare us were the Resident Evil (Biohazard) series of games, with big, flashy chills and spills, and the Alone In The Dark series, which were just plain bad console conversions of average PC games. It just goes to show what can be done with a genre when a development team sits down and outs their heads together properly.
Eclipsing Resident Evil and all other competitors in terms of scares, character development and sophistication, Silent Hill, upon its release in 1999, was unfairly ignored by the general public, even though critics were highly impressed with its blend of psychological method-scares and real-time environments. The public, used to zombie dogs bursting through windows and super-sharp pre-rendered backdrops, couldn't seem to get into a foggy real-time atmosphere where what you heard was scarier than what you saw. However, thanks in no small part to it's sequels (the standard-setting Silent Hill 2, and the graphically amazing, slightly hollow SIlent Hill 3), the original Silent Hill now enjoys something of a Classic status, and I have to say, it's very well-deserved.
You play Harry Mason, a widower, whose daughter Cheryl goes missing en route to their vacation in the resort town of Silent Hill. Along the way you encounter allies and enemies (Cybil the Cop, Dr. Michael, Nurse Lisa, and the memorable Dahlia Gillespie, one of the series' coolest characters to date) and unravel the ghastly truth behind the desertion and possession of a seemingly innocent town.
The graphics haven't aged well, but still have the ability to scare. One of the first survival horror-games to utilise fully modelled realtime environments, the camera angles and darkness/fog make for some truly chilling views. You find your way with the aid of a map, torch and a radio that emits static only when an enemy is close. Since darkness and fog are very cleverly employed in the game (ostensibly to keep the slowdown to a minimum, it also serves to heighten the tense atmosphere) what you hear and do not see is a lot scarier than what you do see. There are also several of the truly cool, nightmarish vignettes that the series has become famous for - Pyramid-Heads in steel cages, the Mark of Samael, and terribly wasted corpses cling to walls and ceilings and give us a deeper sense of the ravages of satanism.
The gameplay and controls in the game, while doing nothing really new for the genre, are loose and easy. This is a system that will never be perfect, lacking the fluidity of the Tomb Raider games and the precision of point-and-click adventures, but does the job nicely. The auto-aim of games like Residnet Evil isn't present, so shooting can become a tense and exciting exercise - but you'll more often than not end up running scared from whatever it is you can't see.
The characterisation is superior, thanks in no small part to superb pre-rendered cut scenes and excellent voice acting. Konami have taken great pains in all of their Silent Hill games to make sure that we understand the characters in the game, and the original is no exception. Our protagonist Harry is the dullest of the players, but he's still a likeable and well-realised character. Cheryl is not the stereotypical bug-eyed Manga cute girl we've come to expect from Japanese games, and she;s all the more realistic and endearing because of it. Nurse Lisa is sinister and forbidding in her surroundings, but her innocence and frailty is heart-rending - I defy anyone not to mist up when she makes her exit in the game. And Dahlia Gillespie is a masterpiece, she's a scary, eccentric old woman that will stay in the memory long after you've finished playing.
I hate giving away plot points in my reviews, and I won't here, either, but a word of advice from a survival-horror completist - CONSERVE YOUR AMMO. Depending on the ending you get (one of a possible five) you may have to fight up to three end-of-game bosses. And nothing spoils your enjoyment of a game more than having to replay the final half for more ammo.
All in all, Silent Hill is a convoluted, enthralling game. It may be slightly rough-looking in places but it's well-worth the ride, and an absolute MUST if you intend to play the laterst installment. Highly recommended.Zombie Babies!..Zombie Babies!, its what makes the game tick. The controls were "sloppy", but, i really didn't mind cause the graphics were awsome. One of my favorites i really enjoyed.I played this game right after I finished Metal Gear Solid and while I was a little let down from the switch I found the game entertaining.  I played it at like 3 in the morning with the lights out and it can kinda freak you out.  It is an old game now but if you liked the Resident Evil series and never got to try this one pick it up for your PS1 or PS2.  Also if you are thinking about getting SH2 definately play this game cause it helps you understand the town.There's pus spewing from the kitchen sink, the walls are bleeding, the fog is so thinck you can cut it with a knife and this is during the daylight hours. Things get worse at night as a demon world attempts to merge itself with our own. This is the premise of the story as Harry Mason navigates his way through this errily bizzare town that his hauntingly a lot like something only the most twisted and bizar mind could create. Resident Evil has its shock moments, but regardless of what anyone might tell you, for a real scare the original Silent Hill is the game to play. This is hands down the creepiest game, and while it has few of the zombie jumping through the window sort of scares there is a great deal of darkness, and erie sounds to compensate. This is a different kind of horror than RE, a game that bares no resemblance to this original master piece with the exception of the irritating control style, but thats where the similarities end. RE relies on catching you off guard, SH requires you to constantly be on guard and plays on your paranoia the entire time, especially with the radio. While RE comes off as a fun B-movie SH comes off as the darkest dream you don't want to remember, which makes it a worthwhile experience well worth the money.
It also features some of the finest FMV sequences to grace the PS1, topping the work of Final Fantasy VIII. The in game graphics leave a lot to be desired though. This is another game I would like to see remade for GCN, however Konami has taken a very stubborn anti-GCN stance, the likelyhood that this will happen is slim.
 As with most Survival Horror titles this game packs an awkward control style that is even more devistating to the overal game than the RE control because the camera moves as though it were stalking you, a cool effect that is hindered by the horrible control set up, a problem that was adjusted in the PS2/Xbox sequel "Restless Dreams". Aside from this complaint the game is brilliant and every horror fan should pick this title up. However, this game is NOT for kids, nor is it for the weak in stomach and faint of heart. It takes a strongh stomach and even stronger will power to get through this game. I don't care how strong you think you are this game will scare you.Unfortunately, the single-player is incredibly boring...just bots and skirmishes.  If there was a campaign, this game is flawless.
The multiplayer is great, and there are plenty of great modifications for this game.  But if you don't have a broadband internet connection, don't think about it.  This game revolves on a good internet connection.i would recommend getting this game for many reasons you have 4 characters to choose from you can pick the route you want the levels are well designed along with the chaacters , the fighting style are also great you get to pick up weapons & use tit against them the playstation version is the best one to buy"Silent Hill" is one of the best survival horror games out there, even better so than "Resident Evil". As earlier reviews have pointed out, this game is not for the faint of heart. The story concerns Harry, an average man who comes to the small town of Silent Hill, a town with a scarred history. He is on vacation with his daughter, Cheryl, and on their way, there is an accident. When Harry comes to, he finds himself alone, his daughter missing. Add to this, the town is deserted. As you might expect, there are dangerous monsters lurking about. The purpose of this game is to find Harry's daughter and unlock the secrets of Silent Hill's past. It won't be easy, though.
"Silent Hill" is better than RE in that it provides much more realism. Harry is an average person like you or me, not a hero or arsenal on two legs. Like most humans, he is not an expert at conflict, so this makes the battles much tougher. The atmosphere is where this game reallt excells. The deserted town is creepier than anything out of a horror movie, with fog so thick that you cannot see 10 feet in front of you. The snow falls steadily. The music is subtle, adding to the creepiness. The monsters come out of nowhere, and there are many occasions that will make you jump.
There is less action than the other survival horror games, but in a game like this, it is not a big loss. The game is more about solving puzzles than blowing monsters into oblivion. Unlike RPGs, there are no  experiece points, no levils, no benefit to fighting every single creature. Running from fights is often the best move.
The one big flaw, which prevents this game from getting five stars, is the clunky controls. I pity the person who plays this game without the analog joysticks. Harry is very difficult to move around, thanks to the complicated control system. It takes a while to get used to them, but by that time you will have gotten killed a few times. The monsters come out of nowhere, and you have mere seconds to react. With controls this complicated, battles are really frustrating.
But all in all, this is a fantastic game. Lots of depth, thrills, and scares. Sadly, this title is out of print, so grab it if you can find it. But it comes with a warning, it is violent and disturbing. Use with caution.As you could guess, being a film student and all, that I prefer slightly the cinematic fear of the Biohazard/Resident Evil series over this, much more eerie style of fear, but that doesn't mean that this game didn't scare me as much, if not more.
What's so great about Silent Hill is that the danger has a sense of reality to it, unlike in Resident Evil where you really just fight some monsters who jump through windows at you and watch some highly entertaining scenes. The fog adds a new element of fear, in which something might be out there; and with the radio, you KNOW when there is an unseen terror lurking in the shadows or precipitation. Real life is more like that: where you can't see your enemies, not where they are just big enough to withstand several direct shotgun shots.
However, enough comparisons to the horror-king series, because this game is neither better nor worse. This game is simply different. Your hero isn't a cop, and the disaster is much more philosophical and fantastic than scientific, which isn't just Resident Evil, but also Parasite Eve. This isn't as much X-Files as it is the Twighlight Zone.
The story is about Harry Mason, an average Joe, coming to the resort town: Silent Hill, with his daughter. What he doesn't realize is that at that very time, the forces of darkness are struggling, almost fighting one another. As a result, there are many dead people around, and the town itself is now pulsating with evil. Sometimes he'll leave a building, where the time of day, or the design of the town will change within seconds, right before his eyes. However, after each boss battle, all the super-levels of darkness will subside, and the daytime will come about again, where the danger is much more scarce; it's kind-of like Castlevania II: Simon's Quest (a true classic), where there are times of light evil, and times of overwhelming evil. However, unlike Simon's Quest, you cannot just wait it out.
The main point that I'm trying to make, is that this game is easily as scary as Resident Evil, but it's less in the real world; yet, it has a strange sense of familiarity to it. However, if you were brought up with the other survival horror world, than don't expect this to just me one of the better entries; this is it's own unique bloodline (well, Fear Effect was similar, but THIS is MUCH MUCH BETTER!!). I know horror players who have given up on this game due to the fact that it is too scary. I have myself, and I'm sure all these other reviewers did as well. You will too, but that doesn't mean that you won't like it.Overall, this game is the creepiest videog ame I have ever played.  The environments, enimies, and gameplay are designed to keep the player interested and a little on the edge.  THe only true problem with this title is that it offers nothing new, and relies very much on the style of playing created by Resident Evil.  Not that this style is bad, but within Silent Hill the gameplay just didn't feel quite as great as it did with Resident Evil, and at times I got a little bored with the wandering around the level that must be done from time to time.  Despite these few complaints this is an excellant title that fans of the "survival horror" genre should enjoy/While the online debate rages as to Q3 versus UT, I would argue that there  is room for both.
That being said, if you only had cash to purchase one  of the two heavyweights, I would probably recommend this first.  Out of the  box it offers a more complete gaming experience over the competition with  more styles of gameplay and better bot support.
The Ups: Lots of  different things to do with this game.  Fun maps.  If I had to pick one  word for UT it would be: FUN.  It has a feel that is very unique, but is  quite enjoyable.  The bots are pretty amazing as well.
The Downs: Not  quite as pretty to look at, even with a super-dee-duper video card, as I  expected.
Overall: A simply amazing game, considering how much they put  into one little box.  Lots of fun on line or off.  One of my top regulars.I hate first person shooters.  I really do.
Except this one.
Why?  Well, Unreal Tournament is hardly the traditional first person shooter of  "blast everything to pieces and maybe you'll survive".  Sure, it  starts like that, just like every other shooter ought to in order to  familiarize you with the control system and interface, but immediately  thereafter you begin to see that with game modes like Capture the Flag,  Domination, and Assault, things are entirely different.
Strategy becomes  an enormous factor in playing this game, purely because your objectives  will often require teamwork.  The game has made this easy by providing you  with the ability to individually change each of your robotic teammates' AI.  Better yet: play with your friends via the internet (NOTE: internet play  is extremely laggy, so i wouldnt recommend even trying it without a  broadband connection of some kind).
The graphics are decidedly sharp for  a low-polygon count game, and the lighting and textures are superb.  Animation and other movement is actually somewhat realistic, and its nice  to see that things are finally changing in the world of FPS.This game is truly a great game and a classic. This game gives endless entertainment and great graphics. Although it's very addicting,it never wears out. Offering many fun and awesome worlds and many heavy and huge  weapons. This game does not have extreme gore, you can change the settings  and it is not that bad in the first place. This is a masterpiece. I love  it. I think this is one of the best first-person shooters i've ever played.It's awesome if you love Metal Gear Solid (especially the first one)as much as I do.  Packed with unlockables like the ability to play as Grey Fox!  Big time investment however which is a good or bad thing depending on how you look at it.In 1998, Hideo Kojima single handedly changed the scope of gaming with one game: Metal Gear Solid.  Within Metal Gear Solid, there were ten VR Missions.  Surprisingly, people spent a lot of time with these VR missions, trying to clear them as fast as possible and honing their skills.  When word of this got out, Konami developed Metal Gear Solid: VR Missions.  A game that consisted of nothing but VR missions for the gamers that wanted them.

If anyone expected any story out of VR Missions, you'd probably wonder what they were thinking, because VR Missions doesn't have a story.  The game is exactly what it says it is: VR Missions.  Metal Gear Solid VR Missions consist of over 150 missions.  At first you can only do very basic missions, including the same ten that were included in Metal Gear Solid.  As well as training with weapons.  The more missions you complete, the more that will open up, including missions that can get into the bizarre, like fighting a giant soldier and super soldiers.

In terms of variety, Metal Gear Solid VR Missions does a great job.  There are so many different varied missions here to keep you busy.  You'll also be able to unlock the Ninja and a couple of other secrets, although, none of these things is very lucrative.  While it's great to play as the Ninja, the controls are a little sloppy, and there are only three incredibly short missions.  As I said, however, there are a ton of VR Missions here to keep you busy for a long time.

Visually, VR Missions is on par with the original Metal Gear Solid, the only real problem being that they didn't opt to create more different looking levels.  So much of the stages look fairly generic, save for a few missions where you'll find yourself in some familiar looking areas from Metal Gear Solid.  You can only stare at virtual space for so long.  Much of the music sounds very good though.  While the soundtrack isn't exactly huge, it plays a good part in letting the player know that through and through this is not an action game.  It is definitely a puzzle game.

There are two things about Metal Gear Solid VR Missions that can cause some alarm, though.  The first being that many missions are fairly short, meaning that this game only really serves as an expansion of Metal Gear Solid.  It's a mystery why Konami didn't just start packing it in with the original game after a while.  It never really happened.  The second huge problem is that the game advertises that it has 300 missions.  What they don't mention is that many of those missions are the same.  You'll undergo one mission and then be expected to do it again in a Time Attack.  To the developers this serves as two different missions, but it's the same mission.  The only difference is that you'll be doing it with an additional challenge.

As a puzzle game, Metal Gear Solid VR Missions is fantastic.  It gets repetitive having to do some of the same missions over and over, and it may only really just be an expansion of one of the bonuses in Metal Gear Solid, but it still serves as a fantastic game for those who crave to do more VR Missions.Metal Gear Solid: VR Missions - Circa 1999

GOOD:

- Great way to hone your Metal Gear Solid gameplay

- If you loved the VR training missions in Metal Gear Solid

BAD:

- Graphics are pretty dated

- No story, think of the game more like a great big Metal Gear VR test

- If you hated the VR training missions in Metal Gear Solid

WILL IT FIT YOUR TASTE:

- Only VR training missions

- Hundreds of missions and training exercise to perform

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Metal Gear Solid's VR Missions

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- The Cyber ninja is a playable character, if only for a few missionsFirst of all, 300 missions sounds like alot, but after playing it for a while you realize that you have completed more than you thought. You are training in a VR world with Solid Snake, and other characters, like Meryl, and the Ninja. Although the Ninja only has 3 missions they are pretty fun. You can use alot of different weapons in different areas. But the reason I gave it only 4 stars is because the first one has a really in depth story and this one is just training. I recommend that you play the first one to really have fun with this one.This game doesn't have a story... But that is actually a good thing! VR Missions is great for those of us who have to wedge game playing between an ever-changing schedule. Most levels take anywhere from 30 seconds to five mintues... and you can exit anytime and save your game. So, if you have to get up and run... you really haven't lost anything if you take ten seconds to exit and save.
It has all the classic moves from MGS, and some fun levels like "Mystery" (arrest the right murder suspect), Puzzle (think enemy-dominos) and round after round of weapon-based combat (so you don't ALWAYS have to sneak around).
I'd say pick this one up, with a ten-dollar price tag, there isn't much of a reason not to!I have always been a Die-Hard MGS fan so I had to buy this game. It was very appealing at first beacuse the missions deliver a proffesional touch to your/snakes abilities. The proves to be challenging and requires a quick tactical sort of brain.
The game needs to be played bye someone who can devote time to play it also, as it gets very frustrating at certain times. I found my self beating the controller on the floor at times do to having to try over and over and over again to beat a level that is extremely intimadating.
This game would have made a better pre-realease game because it prepares you for the most grueling parts of MGS. So if your a new comer to the MGS series get this game first its ideal for training you for the real game.After playing Heroes of Might and Magic 2 for years I was excited about Heroes 3. But, after I got the game I thought it was just Heroes 2 all over again. All that was really done to the game was add several creature, take away a few creatures, mix the towns up a little, and slap better graphics on it. Though I must admit that it was just as fun (and pehaps even more fun) than Heroes 2. One of the greatest things about this game is the plot and story (much better than Heroes 2.) If you're thinking of buying this game, and don't have Heroes 2, then know that it can be very addicting. If you do have Heroes 2 then only buy this game if you want better graphics and a few new creatures then go ahead and get it.This normally takes a long time and is purely strategy-based.  There are at least 50 different creatures you can fight with, each with special abilities and statistics.  You send "heroes" to bring these creatures around the map to gain resources, experience, artifacts, and other treasures.  Then you use your cities to make more creatures.  Generally, the idea is to wipe out your opponents in stunning, turn-based battle sequences.  The heroes are generally few and they often just explore and wipe out uncontrolled creatures, which may flee, attack you, join you, or offer themselves for hire.  The games take a long time depending on the map, at least 3 hours.  You can make scenarios, and the editor is pretty friendly.  I recommend this game for people who want a slow-paced, strategic challenge.I'm giving this game 4 Stars out of the "gate" because it's pretty much just like "M&M 6" and that's definitely a good thing. M&M 6 in my opinion is one the the best in the series and so far 7 has got me wanting to continue more of the late night session i spent with it's predicessor. Oh, and by the way, if you are having trouble getting this game to run,read on a few reviews down,( if you are reading the reviews in order of the 'date reviewed') you'll see a very simple solution shared by one of the reviewer's that works. Fret not,the game does run on XP,you'll just have to have a little 'Know How' and a little patience.-----Darvius7If you love castles,goblins,monsters demon vixens and skeletons swinging swords this game is for you. I thought the graphics were excellent and solving the levels wasn,t difficult. Some may fine the dismemberments a little to gross, but my kids enjoyed it.yep ya guessed it! you get in a car and crash every other car to bits in various arenas.you can win more of them later.each with thier unique capabilities.some are fast,some are strong etc.the most well protected one is the ambulance for in destruction derby mode.if racing,take the hot rod.if you cant handle it,try the rocket.during the actual game,you race against time .but theres also a bunch of other cars racing also.you get points by damaging other vehicles and by making checkpoints.each time you make one,you get more time.however the time is less and less every time.eventualy all cars will be destroyed or you will not make your time.playing here is how you win other cars or in time trial.i just use codes.this game is great un the whole family can enjoy.I am a long-time M&M devotee. I played every game of this gorgeous series. On the last M&M 6, it is put on a new high level. But in this sequel, it seems to do the same thing without new surprise. To be fair,  this game is still lots of fun. I like the storyline very much--- in the  game, whevever you are so careful, you MUST choose your route between good  or evil, and then become the foe and the killer of the other side. This is  life. And numerous quests make you always has something to do. The most  disadvantage of this game is the unnecessary lots of monsters. I hate  myself doing the same thing again and again, accept a guest, kill the  monsters, get the item. (In fact I am not killing the monster, I'm killing  my time....) If 3DO company know this, this game and the following  sequels(M&M 8,9,10,...) would be far more better. (But alas, I just  purchased a copy of M&M 8, and the monsters seem to be even far more.)Ok I remember playing this game a long time ago and LOVING it. But after installing the latest patches and giving it another go I have to wonder...WHO decided to make the enemies be able to shoot you from so far away?
  Whoever did that and made that decision...ruined the game. I am going to uninstall the patch and play again and see if it changes things because I swear it wasn't like that when I played it the first time around. I will update after trying it sans patch.

UPDATE: the problem wasn't the patch, it was my memory. My apologies to any this review affected (prolly like 10 people lol). This is a great classic game and I hope you try it.I like this game a lot. The multiplayer, either skirmish or with some friends, is among the best out there. The game allows for many different ways to attack, like ground invasion, missiles, air strikes, artillery fire, or just nuke the enemy bases. Plus, every attack has a defense, so good players can stop just about every attack against them. This can lead to very long matches with no clear cut winners.

The largest flaw with this game is its age. The engine doesn't allow zooming in or out. Most commanding happens through the mini-map, which can take some adjusting. However, a more advanced engine that supports Total Annihilation maps and mods has been released. It's named "TA Spring". I highly recommend that engine as well. Aside from the engine, there were no major flaws to this game. It is one of the best RTS games ever made.I have owned this game for several years and decided to buy another copy for a friend.

Strategy is somewhat the most important role, but knowing what to build and what to destroy.

An annoying thing I realized is that sometimes you just can't defeat the other opponent even if you rush in with 150+ aircrafts if vehicles, kbots, or ships cannot do so. There are times when it will seem to be like a tie and I save the game and deal with it later. I'm talking about playing against the comp. btw...Playing against other players is great when you learn more about the game.

There are some overpowered items in this game so I find that if you attack in smaller mobs than come in in a large group you might be able to slow down their building of weapons. When they have the most advanced weapons/robots you can't really beat them and neither can they beat you as you would probably have the top items as well. That's the only problem I really found in this game against the computer.

This is an amazing game and you'll be playing it for hours since it's so much fun. Some weapons are really cool and you basically just own tons of enemies with them. I find ships useful for defense since some have powerful or fast attacks. Vehicles are what I used for to attack in smaller groups. Bombing aircrafts literally wipes out a group while only sacrificing a few of your own robots.

If your into strategy action games, you must own this or at least play it a couple of times. What's more fun than blasting metal while using your brain to defeat them.I had too get this game cuz I mess up my  password on ps3 I forgot to write it down on piece of paper I can't signed in to ps3 make sure you write it down. The game isn't bad it all I like it  not too bad I like the story and the sound great gameI adore the entire Metal Gear series (except for the first two games in the 80s/1990).  This game is great...awesome story (very believable, too), great cutscenes (terrible graphics, but that's how it was for the time), and ok combat.  I had to take off one star for the following reasons:

1)  The combat.  It's just ok...sometimes the controls stick and it's tough to get up from a crawl and Snake sometimes backs up against walls you didn't mean him to back up onto.  The aiming can take a bit to get used to as well.

2)  You will die....A LOT....the game is not very easy on the "easy" setting either.  The worst part is that you have to go through all the cutscenes again if you die during a boss encounter.  Very, very annoying.

and lastly,

3)  The Psycho Mantis battle is AWFUL, but only if you got this game off PSN on the PS3.  The controller port switching doesn't work at all, and it takes a good half hour or so to kill him.  You'll find the battle to be very frustrating because of this.  I don't understand why this happens, but after performing a search for the issue online, it's clearly well documented.  I don't know why they haven't fixed it.

In any case, the game deserves 5 stars for setting the benchmark for all future games to follow it, but the above concerns are worthy of a 1-star deduction.Replayed this game after 16 years of being pissed off at myself with this game. Was pretty short in today's standards but got to relive nostalgia and finally beat this game!For metal gear solid fans this is how. Metal gear solid started getting popular worth the money played this game when I was a kidI bought this game for a friend of mine for Christmas. He really likes it and that's all I wanted.Game arrived quickly, and works well. Being new to console gaming, I really did not know what I was missing. The game is very challenging and is right on time.Metal Gear: Solid - Circa 1998

GOOD:

- Considered a classic PS1 game to many

- voice-overs and sound track are pretty good

- Birthed modern day "stealth" gameplay

BAD:

- Graphics are pretty dated

- Game play might feel a little dated

- The dialog can drag on a little bit

IF IT FITS YOUR TASTE:

- Stealth gameplay, with some action mixed in

- Mature and complex story

- Multiple endings and even a few bonuses to unlock

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:

- Tenchu

- Siphon Filter

- Metal Gear Solid: VR Missions

ADDITIONAL NOTES:

- There was a remake of this game for Nintendo's Gamecube called Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes

- Metal Gear Solid is not the first but the third Metal Gear game in the Metal Gear franchise, previously there was Metal Gear and Metal Gear: Snake's Revenge on the NES

- The game Metal Gear Solid: VR Missions was a spin off from Metal Gear: Solid's training VR missions

- There is also a version of this game for P.C.After eight years without a new Metal Gear game, this franchise got it's third entry with Metal Gear Solid. The graphics have not aged well at all. Textures are very pixellated, animation is very jerky, and the framerate can get rather slow at times. The audio, however, has lots of great dialogue, combined with a catchy musical score.

The gameplay is based around stealth. You are Solid Snake, a spy working for a secret agency whose objective is to stop a device called Metal Gear, and save a couple of old guys. The story is deeper than that, of course, but in a nutshell, that's it. The controls, while laid out well, can be very unresponsive at times. The game itself is very fun (sneaking around to either get past or silently eliminate enemies), but is very easy to complete, and take away all of the cinematics and dialogue (12 hours of it all!), and you've got just three hours of gameplay.

Metal Gear Solid hasn't aged well at all, but is still very fun and happens to be a nice collector's piece for fans of the series. But should you start here? No, grab a GameCube and Metal Gear Solid: The Twin Snakes (a next-gen remake of this) instead, then grab Metal Gear Solid 2: Substance on the PS2 or the Xbox.I absolutely fell in love with this game when I first played. The story can get a little confusing at times, but thats no reason not to get this game. This game uses stealth, which really makes it fun for a number of reasons. The graphics in this game are a little cliche, but then again, it came out in 99 and its for PS1, come on. Only problem, it's way too short. If there would have been say, another 4 or 5 hours added to the game, I would have given this game a 5. But due to its lack of lenght, I give it a 4...out of 5I got a good deal on this game.  I purchased it ... at a local retailer and the thought 'if it sucks i'm not out much' went through my mind.  I brought it home and installed it not expecting much out of this game.  Once I started playing though I was blown away.  This is a great game in the spirit of Diablo 2 and Nox.  You start out as a revenant, a resurrected spirit with no recollection of your past.  You must fight an evil cult and rescue the king's daughter, at least I think he was a king, i didn't really pay much attention because the dialogue is annoying in this game.
Aside from the annoying dialogue, and it is very annoying, the rest of the game rocks.  The way spells are cast is interesting and different from normal games where scrolls are memorized or written in a magic book.  The melee combat is good because your character has 4 different attacks instead of the one slash attack in Diablo 2.  Granted he can't learn a whirlwind attack or leap attack but who cares?  That's not realistic anyway.
The graphics and sound are both very good.  The only problem is sometimes I have difficulties picking up items off the ground, especially if they are hidden behind the leaves of a tree.  Also, sometimes you will get stuck behind a rock or the edge of a fence line and it takes a bit to get unstuck, but you never remain there forever.
I also like the way I can see enemies on my map so if my health is very low and I have no food or potions I can avoid them, making my way back to town.
This game is worth as much as $36.95.  I might have given it a few more dollars if it weren't for the annoying dialogue.Originally attracted by the box, which you've got to admit is one of the best-looking around, I'd been thinking of buying Revenant for ages but considered it vastly overpriced (unlike Black Isle games, which seem to drop in price by at least half when they've been out for a remarkably short while).  Recent lower pricing (along with the long wait for the release of Baldur's Gate 2) saw me grabbing a copy, loading it up and setting off on a short, but immensely enjoyable quest. It turned out to be a great time filler.
In the single player mode, your character is Locke D'Averam, dead for 10,000 years but because of unique skills, brought back onto the mortal coil to rescue the kidnapped daughter of the head honcho of Misthaven, the main town on the island of Ahkuilon, by a mysterious magician with (surprise, surprise!) his own agenda.  During his quest, aspects of Locke's past gradually reveal themselves and his visions start making sense by the end.  Sounds like a poor man's "Planescape: Torment", you might think, but since nothing can compare to that epic, forget it and judge it on it's own merits.
Likened by many to Diablo, this game is superior in that it actually has a reasonably compelling storyline (though badly voice acted) and the combat system is not your average hack'n'slash - you learn new battle techniques from the master as you advance.  The use of a game pad is strongly recommended, though I survived all the combat encounters by pounding the hell out of my keyboard while moving about with the mouse.  The scenery is beautifully rendered (the lighting is a real feature), and animation of Locke and his enemies is superb, though a tad repetitious - like the giant spiders getting stuck on the sword and having to be removed with obvious difficulty (hilarious the first time), the death gurgles of the ninja guys got old very quickly.
This is the only game I've played lately where you can carry everything you find - there don't seem to be any weight limits and there are millions of slots, especially once you have a few pouches which you really need to negotiate the huge inventory you end up with (I had about 10 full suits of armour at the end - I was too scared to sell any in case I needed their special properties).  Even though the armourer and weapon smith promise bigger and better equipment, you actually find the best stuff during the quest, though you need to buy some stuff to start off with.  Unlike many other games, except at the very beginning, I always had enough cash to buy any potions, etc. that I needed.  In fact, at the (rather abrupt) end, I had about 60 unused potions of various sorts, and about $100,000.  Also, your character is usually strong enough and well enough equipped to survive most encounters pretty easily.  I found the fact that he wasn't constantly being killed quite refreshing.  None of the puzzles were too taxing, though I had to redo one level for the want of one vial.
Even though the price was reduced, it was still fractionally more than I paid for Planescape: Torment, or for that matter, Baldur's Gate, each of which provided rich and stimulating entertainment for a couple of months.  I spent exactly a week getting to the end of Revenant, and since I'd been having such fun, I was totally unprepared for it.  Remember how disappointing the end of Diablo was?  Ditto for Revenant - the final encounter was quite easy for my impressively armoured, well-armed and richly provisioned character and the whole thing was quickly wrapped up in a movie sequence.  It left me feeling the story was only half told and that the developers just suddenly decided to get it to some sort of conclusion and out in the shops, while they got on with something else.  I wish they'd just gone on with the next chapter - despite any shortcomings mentioned above, I thoroughly enjoyed it!  This is the game to play when you're half concentrating on something else - in my case, LIVE coverage of the Sydney Olympics.This was a decent game.  Probably one of the first of its kind, so that gets it major points.  It's a little on the short side (5 hours total if you watch all the cinematics and take your time) and the difficulty takes dramatic leaps and falls throughout the game, making adaptation difficult.  The graphics are absolutely horrible, but maybe i'm just spoiled by my ps2.  The voice quality isn't bad for a game as old as this one and the moves and strategy you can use are all immensely helpful (as opposed to some games that give you neat moves that have absolutely no application in the game).  Very original.I've just read some reviews for the game all over the net.  Everyone is trashing it...and I really don't understand why.  Is there a certain rule that bargain games cannot be good?  Must a game cost fifty bucks for it to be good?  That's what all magazine reviews seem to be leaning towards.  Don't listen to them, it's just their opinion anyway.  They're a bunch of spoiled babies who sit there and get paid to write ridiculous reviews on games like DS.  I just got the game today, wanted to check out what it was like and surprisingly I found myself playing it for 2 hours.  Bottom line is that if you like Diablo, you will probably like this game.  Same style, same type of dungeons, same everything.  Don't be fooled by those spoiled losers that work for these magazines who are trashing this game in their reviews.  Just because it's not made by Squaresoft doesn't mean it cannot be fun.  I've had more fun playing this game than I did Vagrant Story and that got great reviews.  That's the last time I'll trust magazine reviews...it's all opinions.  Can't lose price-wise on this one, and even if you don't like it as much, you won't be banging your head against the wall for buying the "editor's choice/pick" and finding out that a supposedly bigger, more expensive game is no different graphically than the one I'm writing this review for.
Here's the rundown on the game (1 worst - 10 best)
Graphics: 6  We've seen better graphics on playstation, but hey, this wasn't meant to be state of the art...then again, neither was Frogger but we played that for months now, didn't we?
Control: 8 Can you rotate the camera view at any time in Vagrant Story?  I think not.  Button-smashing (as some of the reviews claim)? Not at all.  Movement could feel more realistic, but we're not here to complain.
Fun Factor: 10 After spending 2 hours with the game, it's about as much fun as Diablo was when I opened up the game and popped it in for the first time.  How much longer will this last?  Who knows.
Music: 6 Average sounds, nothing phenomenal...
In true Amazon fashion, I give this game 4 out of 5 stars.THis game invented stealth to the gaming industry. Plus, it porved that you could be a badass in a video game. Unfortuantly, no one who has played MGS2 is gonna go play MGS1. And that's a shame, because MGS1 almost beats the 2nd one. Better gameplay? Yes, there's a lot more action, stealth is more important, and there's more gameplay than movie. The story's pretty normal until the end. It seems like a regular terroist movie turned into a game. However, there are some bad things compared to the 2nd one. Bad graphics, can't shoot in First person mode, and you don't have a tranquilizer. Oh well, this is Playstation 1. They improved on MGS2, but only a little.This is probably one of the best PlayStation One games there is. This has the best storyline of all, again the characters are cool,the music is okay, and the action kind of blows. What I mean is that unlike MGS2, you can't switch to first-person mode and use your gun, and Revolver Ocelot is kind of lame to fight ( chasing someone in circles is not my idea of an exciting gunfight.) and you can't zoom in or out when using the sniper rifle, also can't use it while standing. Still, it is a good game, but the sequel is better. Not a bad game,but could have been improved.This one's my favorite out of the first 4 and I liked them all (couldn't get into Chronicles or the others after). This one has the best looking tombs in the series and there's more tombs here than any of the others... until you get to the City of the Dead (more than halfway through). Then the game changes quite a bit. It becomes dark and dreary.

Puzzles are harder here. Many times you have to reenter levels to solve them. It'll take patience. But it's all Egypt and really interesting. On the other hand you can save anywhere and there's far more items you can find in LR compared to the previous three. You really have to be doing something wrong to run out of items.

Four stars for this cause (like I said) the City of the Dead the game changes dramatically all the way to the end. But the first 60% of this game was excellent.

Just want to respond to those who complain about the controls: The controls in this game is no different than the previous TR games. Rope swinging was difficult, but other than that it is the same. You can complain about TR's control scheme all together but those who didn't mind will enjoy this.... and it's not just because the fanboys like her exaggerated assets, either. I'm more a roleplayer than an action gamer, but there's enough character involved in the Tomb Raider series to keep me interested.
Lara's adventures follow the same basic mold as _The Mummy_ or the _Indiana Jones_ movies; she goes poking about in ancient sites and gets involved in Things Man Was Not Meant To Know (and that Woman Was Meant To Put Right, apparently!). Being action-oriented, the game gives you a wide range of motion, and does a nice job of making you feel the difficulty and danger of some of her feats -- jumping over pits filled with spikes, swinging on ropes over chasms, climbing sheer cliffs, swimming through shark-infested waters, and so on. In The Last Revelation, the dark Egyptian god Set is unleashed upon the world, partly through Lara's ending up somewhere she shouldn't have been, and so Lara has to put a stop to his rampage. Normally one human against a god would be a silly idea, but then again, the last time Set was loose, human beings didn't have fully automatic weapons, bazookas, and grenades.
The game fails to get a perfect rating from me based on my own preferences and skills. Firstly, because it IS an action game, many of its challenges are based simply on your being good enough to do some particular set of actions very, very well. I'm not the greatest in the world at doing some of the more complex sequences, and this means that it can take a frustratingly long time to get past one challenge -- in some cases, days to either figure out the precise sequence of moves which will get me from one point to the next, or to actually perform the sequence of moves once I've figured it out. Timing is critical, and restarting the game from the last saved point can take an annoying amount of time.
Secondly, because I'm more a roleplayer, I find the lack of choices in actions somewhat stifling. Yes, I would as a rule choose to go and do the heroic thing, but you don't really get any choice to even be reluctant, go get help, or anything else. You work alone, you volunteer automatically, and so on.
Still, playing a couple of Lara Croft's adventures showed me why this series still continues; it delivers exactly what it promises, and does so with panache.I have enjoyed this game very much. It's fun and exciting and the story is a big step up from the previous games. Graphics wise, this game has a few improvements added but otherwise it's similiar to 2 & 3.
  Problems include glitches; falling through walls and losing saves, in fact that is the only thing keeping me from finishing the game. The rope swinging is also a problem. It's hard getting it to swing as is aiming.
Graphics: 8/10
Sound: 8/10
Control: 7/10
Fun: 9/10Demolition Racer is quite similar to the Destruction Derby games  previously released for the Playstation.  Its different modes of play makes  this game stand out from the previous DD games and gives Demolition Racer  the ultimate replay value.
Each car handles differently but seems to  control near perfectly when using Dual Shock Analog Controller.  Your  overall objectives in the league modes is to finish first and to score the  most points.  What can be better than slamming into the car in front of you  and taking them out of the race?  You will find yourself trying to score  more and more points by wiping out the competion.  This is a very fun  aspect of this game.
There are a nice variety of tracks and cars to chose  from and the different modes of play breaks up any repetition.  The Arena  mode in this game is nearly identical to the Bowl levels in Destruction  Derby 1 and 2, however instead of getting to visit the Bowl at the end of  each level, the entire levels of play have you moving from one bowl to the  next (if you survive.) It is a really great mode of play, trying to survive  and destroy the competition in a rounded bowl arena.  Its basically kill or  be killed.
Overall, Demolition Racer is a blast to play and the replay  value will have you coming back for more.  Its a fun game, and at 20 bucks,  its a steal!Thief: The Dark Project, in my opinion, was pretty tedious compared to the fast-moving sequel. It started out fine, but it got really dull and annoying when I reached the zombie-infested parts of the game which include levels like Down in the Bonehoard and The Haunted Cathedral. I loved it at first, seeing new types of opponent apart from the usual guards, but the fun dies out pretty quickly because of the level structure. This is'll be a complete nuisance if the difficulty's set on Expert. The objectives of levels which have zombies and burricks are pretty demanding and they're all not located in convenient places. It requires a lot of going back and forth, which means that sometimes you face the enemies all over again as it's impossible to kill more than 1 especially since they move around in groups, so a quick glance, dart and hide is done mostly throughout the game.

The other levels are pretty "civilized", which involve reasonable objectives, and most of these are taken place in the City where it's mostly guaranteed you won't see mythical monsters like the zombies and the burricks.

The reason why this game mainly revolves around these monsters is because of the storyline. Garrett, the thief you play, finds himself being involved with dark Pagan rituals, people who worship the forces of nature and live in woods.

The graphics and lighting are amazing, and really set the atmosphere. I recommend this game, but a getting a lot from it is not to be expected.Theif: The Dark Project.
The known; Your a theif and take on many jobs by your employer.  Before each level there is a cut seen that sets it up.  Simple but nicely done.  Being a theif requires many theif-like equipment. Your trusty bow(that zooms in when you hold the string back long enough), Blackjack(knock out club), A variety of speciality arrows,including a rope arrow. etc.
Being a theif you rely on darkness, hence a visiblity gauge.  If it is bright then you are in to much light.  Theif also has a sound gauge.  If your walking to fast or on noisy floors like metal grating, tiles or gravel, the noise will be much greater.
The game runs smoothly and is very immersive thanks to the great sound effects and good graphics for the time.  One thing that some reviewers overlook is the stat summary at the end of the level.  It is a nice to see your total and level time,loot, killed bodys, knocked out bodys and discoverd bodys(you can pick up the bodys and hide them to reduce suspicion of other guards.  This adds to the feeling of not just going level to level and actually working for a goal.  A goal which could simply be saving money to buy equipment at the start of the next level.
Levels are layed out nice.  With this point, alot of people complain about the zombie levels.  Is that because its not realistic?  Not a setting that a theif would normally be put into?  Or the fact that they scare the ... out of you.  I will never forget the first time I played the second level and saw a corpes. I bent down to inspect it.  Well what do you know It started getting up and let out a grotesque moan.
The sound makes this game.  Without it, the game would be reduced significantly.  With that said, use headphones and play it in the dark. Your heart will race and you will jump when guards see you or you come across something you where not perpared for.
Playablity.  Play it every once in awhile(like combat flight sim) and it will keep your interest.  With the total time stat it will give you an incentive to try to beat your old time.
Bottom Line.  4&1/2 stars for a truly immersive game, even compared to the glamour of the newer games.  Get it!  It deserves to be in your collection and will not set you back any money.Fear Effect is excellent!  The graphics are fun, the storyline is great, the gameplay is exciting...  It is the best game I have played in a while.
THE DOWNSIDE: The game has very little replay value, and it is not  very long.  It only took a few hours to beat.  The game IS fun, though --  once I beat it, I went right back to play through in Hard Mode.  After  that, though, there was nothing more to the game.
VERDICT:  You should  definitely rent this game if it interests you at all (you will not be  disappointed).  I would not recommend buying it, though.Fear Effect is a fun game that is challenging and quite good value for just $10.  The game is sometimes very tricky though.  Some puzzles go beyond hard as the game progresses.  The bosses and enemies are already hard in the first levels.  The game goes by pretty quick even with the challenge though.  Buy this game if you want a good animated action game that will leave you wanting to play Fear Effect 2.This was a re-bought purchase, as I lost my original copy. This one works wonderfully and much better than my older one despite the lost files on it that I had to re-create.Spec Ops: Stealth Patrol puts you in the life of a ranger. This proves to be quite the task. The first level turns out to be amazingly hard with enemies running around EVERYWHERE and almost no medi-packs at your  disposal. The solution? Call a friend and beat the game in two-player mode.  It turns out that it's a really, really fun game! Kneeling and laying on  your stomach become your best friend when dodging enemy fire. Learning to  search around the area and sneaking up on soldiers shows that medi-packs  are equaly spread throughout levels. Choose your men wisely, as some  missions need someone that can use a scope to take out those irresistible  mines. The graphics, sound, and game mechanics are really great for only [the price]. The only drawback I have is that when you're calling your buddy to  follow you, he can get hung up on things like trees or cliffs -and- the  game could go much smoother without mines on every inch of ground. Overall,  your ... bucks couldn't go to better use. Nothing feels better than seeing  an Iraqi through your scope, or watching the little red sights appear on a  Viet-Kong.If you are familiar with the Harvest Moon series, or even if you are not and you enjoy RPG/Simulation games, this game is a good addition to your collection.  In Harvest Moon 64, you play as a guy who gets to run a farm and have a personal life.
The method of farming in this game is completely done by your character; you till the land, plant the seeds, and water them until plants grow.  And you have to do everything in 2 minutes and 45 seconds because you wake up at 6:00 a.m., hours in this game are 15 seconds long, and the person that picks up the crops comes at 5:00 p.m..  However, time does not pass while you are in buildings.  If you do to much without eating or sleeping (sleeping brings you to the next day), you will not be able to use tools.
Compared to the Harvest Moon for the Super Nintendo, this game has a good number of new features:
1) Tools power-up with the amount of times they are used, as apposed to completing a certain event in the game that gives you a stronger tool.
2) You have to buy your groceries (the food you automatically eat when you wake up and at noon).
3) You can raise sheep!  The money comes from their wool.
4) There are new competitions that include racing your dog or horse.
I could go on and on about the new aspects of HM64.
However, in HM64, there is a lot of misparagraphed text and there are also some bugs in the game.  One bug in particular that I have found is that at some point in the game, Elle's grandmother may die if you talk to her, usually during spring.  Make sure this never happens on a day when something is happening (New Years, etc.) or your game will freeze.
Even with the bugs (try to avoid them!!!), this game still stands out as a great "real life" video game.This is the first video game I've played with no violence. It even encourages and insists on making sure you are loving to your animals! You play a farmer and keep busy raising crops (different kinds in different seasons), taking care of your animals, attending festivals, and more. You decide how much work you do, I recently had to cut down for myself, I was too busy! This game is addictive, but I did get to a point where I wondered if I had any more goals to strive for, because after awhile feeding and brushing your animals day after day gets mundane. Then I realized I could have a carpenter add on to my house, so I am busy collecting lumber every day. Your farmer can get too tired and even get sick so be careful how much work you do. This game would be very appropriate for children as it teaches responsibility and lets them choose what they want to accomplish, and everyone in the game is nice to you! Good for adults too of course. A peaceful change from high-strung action games.Of all the war games me and my sons have played.  This was by far the one of the most fun, I loved how the enemy soldiers were programmed to respond to noises and attacks, very realistic. No matter how many times we played a level trying to get off, it never got dull because the enemies didn,t respond always the same. It was very fun making mistakes,like accidentally throwing grenades at my partner or setting explosives to close and for getting to tell my partner. The only disapointment was not enough levels, but for the price this game was well worth it.Forget the standard Final Fantasystory line. In Thousand Arms you play as Mice Triumph a letcherous young man on a quest to regain his kingdom, and woo any young woman in his path. The game features the best voice overs in any game the Playstation has ever made and the graphics are a culmination of Lunar 2 and Final Fantasy VII. For anyone who wants to have a wonderful story in the tradition of anime, and laugh for hours at some of the funniest dialoge yet, then look no farther then Thousand Arms. Warning the game while not anymore violent then any of the Lunar games does contain quite a few sexual innuendos, partly spawning form the unique system of this game where you can go on dates with each girl and try to win her over. This game is suggested for an audience 13 and up.First off im just gonna say that this game is very weird, one of the most unique games ever. You will probably never play any game like this unless there is a sequel. This is because of the way you learn new spells, you date women! This is very funny because of what they ask and their different reactions, and it is in dialogouge and interactive anime! My complaints are in the battle system factor, it is just kinda dumb. Your three characters are lined up in a row and when on dies the other comes in, so you only fight with one character at a time. This game is very fun, and it can help all those desperate guys out there who aren't gettin' any action. ^_^I do love the CROC series. As though this game may seem pretty difficult to play and not have a very good game rating score. But to me i like challenges. This adventure is definitely a one in a time classic. Who cannot love their favorite toony crocodile character in this game. I like him. He's funny and cool. I am not saying this is the best game. I had tough times with it when i was just a child but now it's a piece of cake. I would consider people trying this game.Don't buy this for very young ones because it will be too hard for them. When Croc runs it's very sencitive so when you tap left Croc will do a full turn. You will die because health is limited but you will get used to this if you're truely talented at games. My first game was Crash Bandicoot 1(back in 97/98)and on my first go I could control the character with ease and I beat my friends at games when they had a Playstation for 2 years. My point is if you've a son/daughter and they've got a simular story and they're talented at games then get this after Croc 1 and I know adults will enjoy this as well.
I don't think Croc 3 wasn't released because Croc 2 was rubbish.
If you like this checkout Crash Bandicoot 1/2/3.
Tenchu 1(this isn't for kids).It can get very "stupid" at times, but, there is a lot of fun in the game and many funny parts in it as well. Females might get "offended" by some of the dateing parts in the game, but please remember its only a game ok, even if the game is a bit "pigish". Very good cartoon graphics.First off, I'd like to thank Jaleco for the effort they put into making this game.  It's not the greatest in the world of survival entertainment, but it was a good first effort, and I wanted to acknowledge that.  The game has a fair amount of good and bad points, and I'm going to go over all of them, starting with the bad just to get them out of the way, and to end this review on more of a high note since I did enjoy this game more than I didn't enjoy it.
 The obvious bad point was the voices, and voice acting.  The main character, Jack, had almost no inflection in his voice no matter what he was talking about, or doing.  I would have liked to have been able to turn his voice off, and have just read what was going on, it was so annoying at times.  Plus, watching his mouth still move for a long time after he was finished talking was a true annoyance.  I did get used to him after about an hour, but I wish they had found someone who could have showed just a little more emotion.
 The graphics were a bit chunky and blocky at times too, and the camera angles were almost too excessively annoying, especially going around corners, where if you were the character, you would be able to see down the hall, but the view they give you on the screen is still a third person look, and you can't see down the hall until you actually start moving down it.
 Okay, now onto the good.  The weapon selection in the game isn't all that big, but you do get what you need to accomplish your goals so I don't really have a complaint about that.  As a matter of fact, I liked the fact that you were given a weapon that had unlimited use.  It's called a welder(why I don't know), and seems strange to be a weapon, but it's very effective against single zombies, and some of the smaller creatures you run across.  This allows you to save your ammunition for some of the tougher zombies, and the bigger monsters you run into later.  I never came close to running out of ammunition by using the welder a lot early in the game when the creatures were weaker.
 Another good thing was the BEM-T3 scope, which you are given early in the game.  This device allows you to look at people, and tell if they are still human or have been affected by the Ark virus.  It also allows you to see through lockers, through plants to look for hidden doors, and also helps negate the bad camera angles you will suffer when going around corners. I would walk around a corner, and then pull out the scope to check down the hall, because you are then given a first person view, and can check for hiding creatures.
 Another bonus was an unlimited inventory, so you didn't have to stockpile weapons or health drinks, or anything else.  You were able to carry everything you picked up without having to fuss about whether or not you really needed to carry it at that time, and then run back somewhere to retrieve something you needed when getting to a certain door or area.  So, kudos to Jaleco for this fine first effort.  The story line might have been a bit weak, and all my questions about Ark and the motivations of some of the characters weren't answered, but overall, it was a good try, and the next time they might make a more polished, complete product.  I'm willing to wait and see.Honestly I am only getting this to play for a while and add to the collection. It was pretty good but nothing like GTA 3 and later.This was definitely how I remember this game. Classic, played it a lot when I was a youngster and decided to get some classics back.Folks, this is *THE* GTA my generation grew up with not the cheesy 3D versions that exist today. While I do not dismiss the greatness that comes with 3D, the 2D bird's eye view was a great experience at the time and even today. The game was pure fun with little decadence compared to the modern installments.
The PC version is much better though but do not get it from Steam if you own an old PC equipped with a 3Dfx accelerator because the Steam version does not come with 3Dfx support!Okay I use to have Harvest Moon for the GBC and in the game you talk to alot of people you get a pet and you do a bunch of farming all in all it's a really great game and can be played on the GBC, Original GBA, and GBA SP.  So if you like farming and talking in games then get this game you'll really enjoy when I first got this game from a friend I couldn't put it down for almost over a month.  Oh and plus there's a photo album in the game that you have to play the game for a while to unlock each picture and if you have a Game Boy Printer which you can get off here amazon then you can print out your pictures and you can play as a girl or a boy in the game.I played this game a long time ago. And I am reviewing it just because i am currently playing GTA 3.
This game reeks with coolness. But me and most other gamers/people want to know how this game managed to get a "Teen" rating. It is just as gory and profained as GTA
Here is how I rate GTA 2
Sound: 10
Graphics: 7
Gameplay: 10
Fun: 10
Difficulty: Easy to Hard
Overall: 8/10 (eight out of ten)I am a Tetris fan and playing on the playstation is no exception. I bought it used, but still a favorite of mine.When it comes to the Playstation there are games that have improved when they were remade for the Playstation 2 and there are games that look and play far better in the Playstation 1 version and Tetris Plus is one of them.  Unlike Tetris Worlds where you may get different modes of the game it didn't feel like I got as much to offer or only so much of the feel of Tetris when I tried this game for myself.  On the other hand Tetris Plus had the more colorful classic mode, the puzzle mode with 100 different puzzles not to mention the option to create and try your own puzzles and the vs. mode to test your skills against another player and all had the exact feel and challenge of tetris as I remembered it.  If you want a tetris game for your Playstation this is by far still the better choice.Because of the new Mortal Kombat Shaolin Monks game coming out, I decided to get all my old MK games out to play. Among them was Mortal Kombat Mythologies: Sub-Zero and this lil gem. Despite what everyone has had to say about the game, Special Forces isn't that bad a game. I mean, if you're any MK fan at all, you're going to get this one just to keep up with the Mortal Kombat mythos. I especially enjoyed the game because it explained alot of the backstory as to how Jax and Sonya first got into MK. I'll admit, however, why they chose Jax to have a starring role in an MK game of his own is beyond me. Not that Jax is a bad character and fighter in the game, he's one of my favorites. It's just there are other more beloved characters from the universe that they could have used. When you think about it, that could be the reason why people didn't make this a big seller, at the time. At any rate, I loved the game. For the first time, it was a Mortal Kombat game that took place in an actual 3-D environment. Fighting is intense with the basic, special, and combination moves.

The only reason why I gave the game 4 stars was because of certain control issues it had. They really hindered my enjoyment getting into the game at times.

Other than that, Mortal Kombat Special Forces is an awesome game. It's a game any respectable Mortal Kombat fan would and should add to their collection.Final Doom is really the third Doom game, so Doom 3 is really Doom 4. Anyway, This game is great. Thirty brand new levels, with tons of tricks and surprises. The only drawbacks are that there are some invisible walls which demons can attack you through, but entering these walls can be fun. Also, it seems like you can never pick up a key or open a door without a wall opening up with a dozen monsters behind it ready to attack you. But the gameplay is flawless. I highly recommend this game!The 2 new 32 level episodes for DooM 2 should not be bought for the pc. Why,you ask?For one,back when it was made,you had to pay 50 - 60 bucks for only 64,when you could download more than 3 times that much levels off the internet. Like a growing athlete,it is time for Doom to say goodbye to the spotlight.
(Buy this for PS if you don't have a pc-wait! Everyone has a PC!)If you are a lawsuit happy whacko stay away from this one. It's not for the family, unless you happen to be in the Manson family! This game is a one player, 1st person shooter. There is a cable link option and if you are  lucky enough to have two TVs, two game consols and two game CDs then you  can have some real battles (same goes for the original DOOM)as you blast  your way through violent, disguised communists or declare war on your  playing partner. There are several levels and most get a little tougher as  you finish each level. The music can be turned off to make the setting even  more realistic. Lots of suprises and weapons keep this body count classic  fresh. Nothing like a point blank double barrel shotgun blast to the face  to really make you mad! A great deal at this price for sure.UNLIKE THE EARLIER MK GAMES, THIS ONE FEATURED SOME 3D GRAPHICS AND IT ALSO HAS WEAPONS WHICH ARE AVAILABLE TO USE OR THROW AT ANYTIME. THIS IS NOT AS GOOD AS THE NINTENDO 64 VERSION, BUT IT'S A GREAT FIGHTING GAME NONETHELESS AND I THINK IT'S BETTER THAN ANY OF THE MORTAL KOMBAT GAMES THAT'VE BEEN COMING OUT SINCE 1999. GREAT GRAPHICS, GREAT CONTROLS, AND A FUN PRACTICING MODE [WHICH YOU CAN FIGHT FOR HOURS IF YOU WANT TO WITH THE SAME OPPONENT!]. BUT UNFORTUNATELY AFTER THIS ONE, THE MORTAL KOMBAT FRANCHISE WENT COMPLETELY DOWNHILL.MK finally comes into the 3D realm in this game. I only wish there were more characters, and I miss the animalities, babalities, brutalities, and friendships. But overall, it's good.The only reason I gave this game two stars is because I am an Mortal Kombat Fan but this game sucks!!!  It was way to easy you know I loved mortal kombat trilogy because it was hard as h*ll and when I beat it I was so happy and said to my self I can't wait till the next game!!!  Yet this is just bad you don't even have to learn the peoples moves any more.  You just have to take out your weapon and hack'em to death it just sucks. Then I went and rentid Mortal Kombat:DA and I do admit harder then this peice of $h! t!!!  Yet still the weopons are still there and now you can stab them in the gut and leave it there so the person you fight slowly dies.  So what I'm saying is stick with 1,2,3 and Trilogy they are way better.I still play this game, you if you're a first person shooter, you should understand why. Doom is still a classic killing game, despite the fact that it is an older and out dated play style, bested by the newer and hotter lines such as Call of Duty:Modern Warfare and others like them. However, I still like this game for 3 reasons.... Bazookas, BFG2000, and the willies!! Yes, the spine tingling you get when your stare too long at the screen while playing Doom and the music creeps you out some much you need to pause the game to turn on the lights!!

So, turn out the lights, load that BFG, and blast some hell knights!!4 stars because it arrived very quickly, it's a gift for my friend whose birthday is the 19th, It arrived on the 17th so I was VERY happy.. Looking at the disc because I was worried when it said "disc shows some wear from use" and sure it has some very faint scratches (like 2-3 maybe?) but I've seen deeper scratches in ps1 games and they still played. Hasn't been tested but they are obsessed with doom so they will let me know if there's any problems with the games and I will update. So far I'm very very very happy.I have to admit, despite not being a fan of the first person genre, I love Doom. There is something about the exploits of a lonely space marine single-handedly taking on the forces of hell that draws me in and refuses to let go. Still, as enjoyable as Doom and Doom II were, these games generally don't deliver on the challenge front for a seasoned player. While some may consider that a drawback, it was a non-existent problem to me since challenge isn't the most important thing I look for in a game. However, for those that do, they can easily up the ante with Final Doom.

To some, Final Doom for the PlayStation will never be anything more than a haphazard potluck. This port doesn't contain every level from the two thirty-two level PC campaigns nor does it contain every level from the twenty-one level Master Levels expansion. In other words, out of pool of eighty-five possible levels, only thirty make an appearance here. So how does this affect the experience? The answer depends on which episode one's talking about and which levels made the cut.

Things start out with The Master Levels where thirteen of the possible twenty-one levels make up the core of Final Doom. These levels are meant to test one's mettle with relentless enemy attacks and complex level design, something they do quite well. Players will find a level like Vesperas is hard to tackle regardless of what difficulty level their playing on. Still, the real attraction of the master levels beyond the challenge is the fact the player can carry their status and weaponry from level to level. This isn't possible on the PC since the data for each level is its own file, something that was purposely done so each map would be considered its own separate entity by players. Final Doom on the PlayStation proves how unnecessary this was since each level still feels like a separate experience even though they follow one another.

Next up is TNT Evilution, the first of the two Doom II follow-ups presented in the PC version of Final Doom. Taken as a whole, TNT Evilution is an excellent and balanced expansion that just can't make its case with the eleven levels presented here. It could have been better with a better selection of levels, but it's just better to buy a copy of the Doom Collector's Edition for the PC and play it in its entirety. Additionally, while I have nothing against the ambient score whipped up for the PlayStation versions of Doom, I just don't have patience towards it when reflecting back on the wonderful midi-based soundtrack Team TNT created for the PC original.

Last up is Plutonia with six levels. Cruel as it may sound, I'm absolutely thrilled this episode got the short end of the stick. Take the challenge of the Master Levels, throw in every cheap shot and tactic in the book and you've got Plutonia in a nutshell. Challenge quickly eclipses entertainment when it comes to levels like Congo, Ghost Town and Onslaught. That said, if you're really serious about tackling the hardest levels Doom can throw at you, I'd again suggest going the PC route so you can save your progress at will. Regardless, while the levels are still well designed at this point I have no problem billing Plutonia as Doom's weakest and ugliest link.

The shortcomings of its experiences aside, Final Doom is a worthy and refreshingly different follow-up to Doom. At it's simplest level it may be more of the same, but those who immerse themselves in what it has to offer will find it contains a feel all it's own. It's not always fun, and some parts are of more value than others (The Master Levels being the main draw here) but those with a little patience will have little problem in adding this to their collection.Final Doom is an excellent game. I own both Ultimate Doom & Final Doom for the playstation and enjoy playing both of them. This game is a lot more exhausting than Ultimate Doom, too. Most of the levels are huge, extremely mazy, and difficult, so you'd better be a good thinker! That's right, each level is a dark, scary labyrinth of evil soldiers & monsters, so you'll need to use your brain if you plan to make it out alive. The whole key to Doom is survival, and it's not going to be easy this time. The graphics are a bit sluggish, which is why I give the game 4 stars instead of 5. But everything else (sound fx, music, controls, gameplay factor) is fine. The soundtrack in this game is very disturbing, to say the least. It helps create an incredibly eerie atmosphere that few games have ever done. The sound fx are realistic and the gameplay factor is superb.

Do I recommend Final Doom for PS1? Yes, I do. So order it now while supplies last, or be "doomed" forever!Forgotten amidst the blood of Mortal Kombat and 3-D presentations of Virtua Fighter and Tekken, the Street Fighter II series initiated the fighting game craze.  Whereas its successors won their fanbases with graphical geegaws, Street Fighter II's strength was superb, well-balanced, uncomplicated gameplay that was simple to learn but exhausting to master.  Street Fighter Collection accurately reproduces that gameplay, making for an excellent anthology, but not a flawless one.
Firstly, the omission of the first three iterations of Street Fighter II is glaring.  Given the lack of complexity of those games, one has to wonder if Capcom's developers were too lazy (or their marketers too greedy) to finish those titles for this release, instead leaving them for Street Fighter Collection II.  Graphically the games are preserved admirably, although CD audio forces the game to start each track over when speeding the tempo up, unlike in the arcade games.  The long load times are excruciating, as is each title requiring its own Memory Card block, when the high scores for both titles could easily fit into a single block.
The inclusion of Street Fighter Alpha 2 Gold is nice, but seems out of place in what is supposedly a historical collection.  Perhaps the developers felt they rushed the original Street Fighter Alpha 2 to market, and tried to save face by placing the more polished Gold version in this compilation.  And since this third title requires its own Memory Card block, Street Fighter Collection actually requires three blocks in all, not one as is advertised on the packaging.
Still, all three games have withstood the test of time, and are worth purchasing for gameplay if not historical value.  But the aforementioned drawbacks of the Street Fighter II games and dubious packaging do detract from the compilation as a whole.Game came in working order and brought back heaps of nostalgia while playing it. It's not the best N64 game out there in regards to storyline and play modes - infact there's not much you can really do in this game, but that's not why I bought it. Regardless, it's still a fun time wasting game to play alone or with friends.this is a pretty fun game if you're in the mood just to destroy tuff. there really is nothing to this just destroying buildings. it get boring in a while but it's fun.Some people may think that Monster Rancher is a stupid Pokemon clone with absolutely no entertainment value.  They are very wrong.  Monster Rancher 2 is one of my favorite games.  You start out by either going to the market and getting a monter or regenerate one yourself by going to the shirne and using a "disc stone" (CD).  The main object of the game is to raise and train your monster.  You have to decide which stats will benefit your monster the most in a battle.  Some monsters are better at some stats than others.  For example, a Durahan has wonderful power and defense but awful speed.  One feature that I really like about this game is that it never ends.  To actually beat the game, you must beat the Major 4 tournaments, the hardest in the game.  Once you do that, it doesn't stop.  You can combine monsters together to make even more powerful ones.  Some monsters aren't available at the start of the game, but they can soon be unlocked.  The only drawback is that MR2 does get somewhat repetative, but it's still a great game.This was a great game that I enjoyed playing a lot. The point of the game is to raise a monster. You start with a low leveled monster, your goal is to make them learn different attacks and win money against other trainers in battles. This game is very similiar to Pokemon. The only thing I didn't like was after you raise a macho battle-ready monster that took hours to train, it dies. Anyway this game is a great game!!Although this is a great game, that's extremely fun, you can only play it once.  The graphics are ahead of their time (not now, but they were), and when you use a lightgun it's a party.  But, you end up doing the same thing over and over again.  It's like you die, then just play again, so you can die again then repeat.  It sort of gets old after a while.  If you can get it for a bargain I'd say go for it, but if it's too expensive don't get it, because the time you'll play it won't be worth the money.
Graphics: 5/5 (for their time)
Fun factor: 4/5
Replayability: 2/5
Sound: 4/5 (just normal)
Overall: 4/5This game is very good. It combines the good things of the original Mortal Kombat with (few) good things of the later Mortal Kombats such as (MK3 & MK3 Ultimate). It is worth buying if you still play your Playstation1, or if you are a die hard MK fan and you still want to play it on your PS2 IF you have one.Before there was Tekken and Soul Blade and the rest of the current fighters there was Street Fighter and Mortal Kombat.  Mortal Kombat was easily the best in terms of richness of the game.  The characters moved  fluidly, the voices were understandable, and there was blood.  The series  progressed nicely with great additions and secrets added every step of the  way.
This title is a great, nostalgic look back at those times.  Being  able not only to play any of the characters from the first 3 games, but  also as their different incarnations is huge.  When the Genesis/Super  Nintendo became obsolete I feared the loss of these games.  But with their  release on Playstation, especially in this title, I am happy.  The game  play is great and packed full of surprises.  As far as 2D fighting games  goes, this is the best and is better than many first generation 3D  fighters.  If you liked this in the arcade, you'll like it here.  Granted,  it has the usual translation problems with the buttons in the  wrong places  and more difficulty moving the stick, but you get those problems with any  console game.I have had this game since it came out. too many people see this as a bad/old game, but i remember when this first came out...it was  revolutionary. this was the ORIGINAL game to use the engine, while attitude  was a sequel, and ECW just plain copied it. If you have a choice, though,  you should buy it's sequel, attitude.I love this old arcade games. I remember when young playing Defender and Robotron, and this disk faithfully
reproduces this games. The only diference is that ussing the dualshock controler makes it more dificult than ussing the controlers on the arcade machines.Fun update to the classic. Though I guess this is a classic now as well. Fun to play multiplayer with the kid. We both think it's hilarious.the game was good but, every time i beat the game, it never goes anywhere further after defeating the boss. plus the music messes up a lot at times.This was a really good MK game at the time. Heck. It still is good. It's got all the characters from Mortal Kombat-Ultimate MK3,Plus with the fatalities,friendships,babalities,ect. But there are some problems with this game. It does not include EVERY single background from the first game,like it does with MK II and MK3/UMK3. It's got the courtyard,the pit,the pit bottom and Goro's dungeon,but where are the rest??? I found that to be a major issue for me. Another problem I had with it,is alot of the backgrounds don't have the music in them,from the original games. It seems all kind of shuffled up. Lastly,another little issue is,you cannot perform a stage fatality in the pit 2,that was orginally in MK II,which IMO,was the best stage fatality out of the first three games(Including UMK3)...oh and why is Johnny Cage all of a sudden fighting with his shades on??? But Overall though,if you can overlook the little flaws,I guess this is a good game...but IMO in could have been somewhat better.Kartia: "The Word Of Fate" (recognized as Rebus in Japan), crams  fabulous innovation in one decent Strategy/RPG. Although Atlus has released  a few worthy games on the PlayStation console, Atlus begins to grow as a  company who'll soon promote their selves into a house-hold name. Like the  arising empire of Enix. Despite the humiliation from their most  embarrassing game, Eggs of Steel, Atlus is gaining momentum with their  not-notch RPGs.  Taking corresponding steps alike with Ogre Tactics and  my all time precious- Final Fantasy Tactics-, Kartia packs  charming  innovations. Sure, Kartia may not have the excellent job systems like FFT,  or any archers for the matter, yet it brings temples of innovations to bury  the burden. It has Phantoms. Once the player ons his PlayStation, the  player selects his  decision to accept the role of Toxe or Lacryma. Each  character has a totally different story process.  The niddy-griddy fun in  Kartia is concentrating on your arsenal of Phantoms. They are  paper-rock-scissors monsters.  All phantoms can be defeated by a specific  one and vise versa.  Phantoms play the most basic role.  During the game,  the player uses them to create elemental magic or specialize weapons.  Assembling the player's own infantry takes a critical job for victory or  instant death. The objectives in Kartia are alike with FFT's system. From  claiming the lives of your adversaries to escorting a vital character,  Kartia has the same fundamentals of any Strategy/RPG game.  What really  amazes, is the addition to disturb the environment. Players have the  opportunity to cut down trees down for a bridge and order a magician to  freeze a pool of water for walking.  Battling enemies on the vast  terrain is exciting, but the game loses some valuable points from being  completely linear. Gladly, there is another innovation that covers that  burden as well, the 2P Mode. Final Fantasy Tactics could have been truly  flawless if Square decided to include the 2P Mode. Kartia takes  Strategy/RPGs deeper. The 2P Mode allows two players to battle their armies  on saved data. Players can also trade items.  The ONLY downslope going  for Kartia is the abrupt end.  Kartia is an engrossing story. With  a tale like this, why not bring an anime in the movie industry?  Both  characters have dissimilar story progressions. Loxe is a young boy who  enjoys the elegance of swordplay a bit too much. Lacryma is an incredibly  robust Shrine Knight. It's up to these two heroes to protect the land from  barbaric rebels. Heroes fighting the bad rebels may sound dull and boring,  but once the backstabs roll in, there's no way the player can let the  controller free again. Someone, anyone, make Kartia an anime!  Graphically Kartia is a 3D splendor. The vibrant colors hold an artistic  environment. When a person speaks, a dialogue box is set above the screen  and the character's faces appear. At the FMV department, the videos are  dark, and morbid that triumphantly stimulates your daily dose of eye-candy.  Music thrives to hand the player spectacular soundings.  The beats can  really adjure you in an edge of your seat thrill.  Atlus has succeeded to  create a game that goes beyond the redundant  RPGs today.  Don't be fooled  by Kartia's age or lack of popularity. This is a solid buy.  FFT fans, run-  kill only if necessary- to grab a hold of this monster.  2P mode shines and  awaits for your arrival. In return for your forty bucks you'll get the  chance to trade items with a friend, and get sucked into a extremely  addictive play!The reason i give this game 4 stars instead of 3 is because the slow loading times in beetween fights. If you owe a PS2 go to Ps driver and change the texture to smooth and disc speed to fast. The loading times are reduced by quiet alot. overall this game is great but the morphing of shang tsung can get frustrating because it has to load everytime you morph. this game is great for beginners but if you are a true hardcore MK fan get armageddon.This game is really hard. You could beat the game with Kintaro and Goro easily. When you battle Shao Kahn with Sindel it's really hard. I still like it though.This game is da bomb!! Forget about Mortal Kombat Trilogy on the Nintendo 64. The Playstation version blows that one away! You get to pick more selectable fighters, including Goro, Kintaro, Motaro, Shao Kahn, Jax & Kung Lao from MK 2, and Raiden & Kano from MK 1. Plus, the sound fx and music are equivelant to the smash arcade hit. And speaking of the incredible soundtrack, you can even stick this disc into your CD player and actually listen to music from the game! In other words, MKT is both a video game and a music CD!!! Of course, this thing is loaded with plenty of blood and violence, but that should be a real treat for gore hounds. Diehard MK fans will definetly get their moneys worth. The options menu offers you some pretty cool stuff, including automatic combos! That's right, you can do combos simply by tapping one button! That rocks! The graphics & animation look pretty good for a 2-D game, and the controls and gameplay work together nicely. However, this game does have its cons. The game only has one cheat menu, which kind of s*cks. The one-button-fatalities mode messes up sometimes. The game itself freezes sometimes and you have to reset the game. If you have both a PS1 and a PS2, avoid playing this game on your PS2. Instead, play it on your PS1. This game messes up a lot when played on the PS2 console. I'm not sure why, but it plays good on the regular PS. All of the stage fatalities are here except for the Pit 2 fatality, but I can do without it. The bosses are incredibly hard to beat, unless you play as one of the bosses yourself. You can beat Shao Kahn best with Noob Saibot by shooting your ring at him and doing combos on him. The bosses don't have fatalities, but they sure are tough. The storyline on this game s*cks and doesn't go into detail like MK3 did. However, each character has their original tournament outcome when you beat the game, which is cool.  Other than that, this game is still da bomb! Straight & simple. If you're a diehard blood-thirsty MK fan, then get this freakin' game now. Otherwise, steer clear.Snowboarding games are a dime a dozen these days, so it's nice when a good one comes along. Although it's rare to see a snowboarding game play out like Mario Kart, it makes for a really fun game. You play as one of 6 grade school children, collect items and weapons, knock off enemies with these items and weapons, do tricks, and get money while trying to win the race. Even though the childish characters may intimidate many who see this game, this still is a great game. The game looks pretty nice for N64 standards, the controls are tight, the sounds are good and the music is very catchy. This game also uses great ideas, such as saving money to upgrade your snowboard or playing on really wacky (but really enjoyable) courses. In fact, some of the courses have no snow on them! But that's the fun of this game: getting to snowboard down unimaginable terrain, while at the same time, hitting your opponents with pie-pans, bombs, rocks and other items. It releases some kind of childhood glee deep in your brain that I just can't explain. But it's not all fun and games though. There are some problems. First, is the game's image. Many are really going to be turned off by the childish nature of this game, though I liked it so much, I didn't care. The biggest problem is that you need a Conroller Pak to save your data. The real gripes here is that there is no battery backed memory option along with the Controller Pak use and since the game requires 121 of the 123 pages in the Controller Pak, you'll need to spend more money getting more Controller Paks if you have other games that require it also (Mystical Ninja starring Goemon, Rugrats In Paris) or games where you want to save data for safe keeping (Wave Race 64, Perfect Dark). But even with these issues, the game is still really fun and worth playing. If you like it and still want more, try its sequel, Snowboard Kids 2. But try the original first to see if you like the style of play. I'll bet dollars to donuts that you'll enjoy it, though. Great Job, Atlus.This game is very nice it was hard and it took me a month to beat it.  Ok I do admit some of the charecters from 3 and Ultimet suck so I don't pick them.  Yet I can't help but love it when I do Scorpions attacks and defeat Kahn.  Yet number two will always be the best I think Unless Midway goes back with the old charecters and get some real writers for a better plot!!!awesome awesome awesome a little buggy at times but its worth it to play through trust me i bought the entire legacy of kain series off the strength of this game. oh and did i say awesome already well it is. moody dark and beautiful scenery. buy it nowLegacy of Kain: Soul Reaver - Circa 1999

GOOD:
- Mature and Dark foreboding story based on Blood Omen: Legacy of Kain, with lots of twists and turns
- Voice work is really good
- Large Gothic world to explore

BAD:
- Graphics looked dated, to today video game players
- Raziel can really only use two weapons a staff and the sprit sword soul reaver
- Lots of old fashion block pushing
- Has a "to be continued ending"

IF IT FITS YOUR TASTE:
- Lots of exploring, lots of block moving
- An original take on the Vampire story
- Takes place in a medieval type of world similar to Dungeon and Dragons

GAME ITS MOST ASSOCATED TOO:
- Tomb Raider 2
- Vagrant Story
- Castlevaina: Symphony of the night

ADDITIONAL NOTES:
- This is the first game in the Soul Reaver franchises but a spin off of the Blood Omen franchises
- Blood Omen and Soul Reaver are two different franchises that fall under the Legacy of Kain franchise
- A version of this game was also made on the P.C. and DreamcastLegacy of Kain: Soul Reaver was one of the first games made for playstation and to this day is still one of the bestSoul Reaver follows the story of Raziel, a badass vampire who's trying to get revene on his former master Kein. Raziel must travel through the spectral realm and the real realm defeating 9 vampire tribes to get stronger and defeat Kein. Wgat makes this game fun is the fact that you can go anywhere you want at anytime. Also the graphics were way ahead of it's time. The fighting is this game is amazing, you get to use Raziels brutal vampire attacks and you can use spears which can either throw for a one hit kill or beat the living crap out of your enemies. The bad things about this game is that there is absolutely no sense of direction in this game. I had to refer to the internet man;y  times to figure out where to go next. Also I heard that the ending sucks. I never beat the game because I couldn't get into Keins lair at the end. This game has a few flaws, but as long as you have a strategy guidej, it can the funnest games you'll ever play.I LOVED THIS GAME~
opening was good.........game play was good.
the only thing i did not like was part of the storyline.
IF you are as into the story line as i am .you KNOW that raziel was never in the first blood omen BUT in this game they said he was.( even placed him in the room with the orignal pillar people ( hehe )( you will know what i am talking about  when you play)
HE never had a pillar and he was never in the first one.
GUUUUUR
other then that the rest of the story line was very nice.
the ending made me want to cry as well....
with that aside i say YAH HOOO this game rocks. you need to rent it or buy it or get someone to play it for you.ok, I have to be honest.  This game totally rocked.  The graphics were surprisingly impressive and the combatives that you use, (Such weaponry as the soul reaver, Kain Reaver, Ariel reaver, Fire Reaver, Etc) is impressive and totally sucks you in.  There are two reasons that I gave this game 4 stars instead of five stars: It can be very hard due to the puzzles and lack of direction, and plus it can be boring after a while because the enemies get pretty redundant after the first couple of levels.  On the other hand, this game is worth buying.  I enjoyed exploring the  dark, scary, gut wrenching and yet unique world of Nosgoth, and I am hoping to get Blood Omen 1.  Either way, this game is fun.  It's impossible not to enjoy this game.Soul Reaver is much improved over Blood Omen, the graphics being the most notable improvement.  The story line is grusome, yet completely involving.  You can do alot of damage to your opponents and Kain is probably the most dynamic and pitiful character (appearance wise) to date.  The dark, moody atmosphere is not only necessary, it is downright cool and adds a great deal to the game overall.  The music score is fairly decent and controls are tight.  Load times have been much improved as well.
The only real problem with the game is lack of direction.  It is never quite clear what you are supposed to do next so you spend alot of time wandering around waiting for something to happen.  Other than that, its a good game.  Also, replay value is fairly low because nothing really changes.  All in all, a good, easy and fun game to kill a few hours with.This wasn't widely released in America though those who have played it swear by it as being just as fun as Mario Kart 64. I agree with this comparison. However this has some fun twists that Mario Kart 64 lacks. One such twist is that laps occur when you get to the bottom of the hill and jump back on the lift. This can cause for some HILARIOUS chaos! If two racers have a good lead on opponents but are trying to bump each other out of the way to jump on the next lift chair, it can give other people a chance to catch up and possibly sneak onto a chair first if their opponents knocked each other over. I love this dynamic! Because it makes it more than just your average Mario Kart racing clone.

Other features include the ability to buy new boards and perform aerial trick to earn extra cash. Money earned during a race can also be used to "buy" weapon items encased in boxes littered throughout a course. I also ought to mention the music; it's wonderful!!! It features bubbley techno music reminiscent of dance/pop groups like Aqua. You'll dig the energy the music provides.

If you are a fan of Mario Kart 64 style crossfires, I think you'll find this is a unique addition to your N64 collection.This game is so fun and funny. I got this game for my birthday a few weeks ago and i loved. It so funny with the one liners from dana gould. But I am warning you do not let people under the age of at least 8 to play because it has bad words in it. My game kept saying the D word over and over and over. I have a five year old brother and he heard the d word and he said over and over and over. I am warning you this game is really fun and funny but don't let little kids play it or even listen to it. But for sure this game is much better than Croc and Croc2.The blitz series in my opinion is the most action for a sports game yet. I like realistic, franchise, challenging games and war strategy games. But this game in my opinion is the best multiplayer game for Nintendo ever.
GRAPHICS
The graphics are good but not in the realistic way.
How hard is the Game Play?
To put it simply this game play is easy in the way you will win 49-10 every game. The only way it is hard is if you are the worst team and the computer is the best team with hard playing by the computer in options.
Bad mouthing?
Don't get to excited because there is no swearing by players just comments from player to player that are mean after they make a tackle or make a nice catch or something.
Play Editor
In blitz you can make your own plays even choosing if you want the player to fake at the time spin or even go faster. But the plays aren't always as successful as they seem when you make them.
Players
Statistical accuracy is preety much given two ratings which are (....bad) and awesome so stat accuracy isn't that accurate. Each team only has their 10 best players on each team and for the rest of the positions are guards and things which play all the same. So there are only really the main players on the team.
Game length
The length of a normal 2 min. a quarter game is about 15 minutes.
Overtime
In overtime you play for two minutes and the first team to score doesn't win instead it's the person who has the most points at the end of a quarter.
P.S Sorry this wasn't as detailed if you've read my other reviews such as season ticket, madden 2001, Ken Griffey Jr., and Day trader.(Season Ticket is my best one so far)I rented this game with my friend and we played it the whole time he was over. Well about a year after that I decided to buy it. The thing I like best about the game is the Stunt level.  But after having it for quite awhile it gets pretty boring. The racing part against the computers is really hard, sometimes I can't even get to third place. If you liked San Fransico Rush you'll love this game.Winaback: Covert Operations was released for the Nintendo 64 in 1999 and while it wasn't as popular as other games, it soon had a cult following for the simple fact that it's a good Metal Gear Solid clone. It borrows all the elements that made the PS1 hit title great while putting its own spin on the "terrorists threaten to blow up the world" story. There's no denying where the developers of the game looked for inspiration and for the most part, it pays off.

You take control of Jean-Luc, a member of a SWAT-like military group out to stop a terrorist organization from using a powerful satellite to destroy the world. From there the story plays out similar to that of Metal Gear Solid except it's not as complicated (complete with a twist at the end.) You have access to a limited group of weapons that includes a pistol, shotgun and assault rifle. Later on, you'll be able to pick up a silencer, rocket launcher and ammunition packs to increase the ammo you can carry. You go from point A to point B in every stage  shooting soldiers, hitting switches, destroying laser beam sensors and acquiring keys for unlocking doors. Every so often, you'll face off against bosses which requires you to figure out the best way to beat them. To save your progress, you'll need to use a memory pack as this is a pretty long game. Beat the game on all difficulty levels and you unlock extra modes, characters for the multi-player section and game modifiers. If you have some friends, you can try out the multi-player mode with them for up to 4 players.

The PROS: For what it brings to the table, it's a good game. While the story is not the most original, it's enough to get you into the game. The animation is decent, sound effects & music are good and the controls take some getting used but thanks to the game's tutorial mode, it isn't a problem that lasts long. It's a long game and beating it on all the difficulty levels to unlock the extra content gives plenty of incentive. While playing it on easy mode gets you used to how the game works, normal and hard modes bump up the difficulty so it will give you a challenge.

The CONS: The graphics are decent but could have benefited from using the expansion pack. Instead, they are basic but because of the action, you won't pay attention to it at first. The camera is your worst enemy throughout the entire game. You're in total control of it which means you must turn it left or right whenever you face off against enemies and traps. The camera doesn't turn on its own and if you're not careful, you'll walk into enemy fire/laser beam traps and won't see it coming. You get used to it but it's a real chore. The multi-player mode is fun for quick matches but isn't as fleshed out like the multi-player mode in Goldeneye 007 or Perfect Dark. Also, you do a lot of backtracking; many times you will walk through sections already cleared so repetition sets in every so often. While there are 32 stages altogether (including boss encounters), it is spread out through 4 areas so don't expect a lot of variety in the background.

Winback was a good game and I find it is still worth taking out my console and playing it. If you can overlook its flaws, you may very well end up enjoying the game as much as those who tried it. It's the closest thing to getting a Metal Gear Solid-ish game on the Nintendo 64 and one of the few stealth action games available for it. Amazon is selling it brand new and for cheap so go ahead; it won't cost you much.This was not the best mystery/adventure game I've ever played, and I'm not even a big fan of such games to begin with, but I am a serious X-Phile.  Despite the seven CDs full of Full Motion Video than make up the game, it wasn't a whole lot like being in an X-Files episode.  Instead, it was more like being one of those "other agents" who make brief appearances two or three times per season.  You actually have to do some of the tedious legwork to collect evidence instead of having it conveniently handed to you after the commercial break.  Of course, the up side to that is a more immersive, believable feel to the game and a feeling of accomplishment when you finally do spot the crucial clue.
Fans of the series will find plenty of references to themes, conspiracies, events, and trivia from various episodes, as well as the familiar faces.  While it's not strictly necessary to recognize all the references to the series in order to solve the mystery, it does add quite a bit to the game.
If you're not a fan of The X-Files, there are better mystery/adventure games out there.  If you find mystery/adventure games frustrating, you probably won't like this one even if you are a fan.  On the other hand, if you do enjoy both this type of game and the series it's based on, you'll have a lot of fun with this game.Throughout the games of Midway's length, many of theirvideo games were straight from the arcades,whether it was Mortal Kombat, or NFL Blitz. Nevertheless it was very rare to have a video game to come straight from the shelves, that wasn't from the arcades. That answer came through with the release of Rush 2.
The 1998 video game was made exclusively for the Nintendo 64, and not upon any other console. Ironically, the prequel, San Fransisco Rush, was made on both the N64, and the Playstation. The game features many exciting and enduring automobiles through the streets of some of the biggest cities in America, including New York City, Los Angeles, and Hawaii. The game also includes the infamous Alcatraz prison, a hidden course from the previous Rush. Many fans were shocked to know why the game wasn't on any of the other consoles at the time. The sales for the Playstation version of Rush were just awful, and Midway chose to put this only on Nintendo 64.
While many people stopped purchasing Nintendo 64 games, Rush 2 remains as an absolute delight for any racer in the world. If you're looking for a reved up time, Rush 2 is that game for you.Rampage 2 is awesome. It's more of the same from the orginal but moooore monsters. I was up all night with this game, plus theres a twist..YOU HAVE TO SAVE THE MONSTERS FROM THE ORIGINAL IN ORDER TO EARN THEM! Thats pretty friken awesome. The 3 new memebers of your team are a krab dude a ryno dude and rat name Kurtus I think. I don't remember there names because I played this game awhile ago.
There is also another monsters thats and extra for the game. I think the monsters name is Miyakis or something like that.
WAY TO GO MIDWAY! This was a great game.
I hope they make another sequal in the future RAMPAGE 3 which takes place in iraq or something like that well that would be mean I guess if they do that...ALL IM SAYING IS THEY SHOULD MAKE ANOTHER SEQUAL! It's bin to long.
The sequal to the original is better if not just as good as the original.
Over all this is an awesome game for any N64 player....Rampage 2 rules!
Later..This was a pretty good game, but not a great game. I'd probably rate this closer to 3 1/2 stars. You are agent Craig Wilmore. Scully & Mulder have disappered and it's your job to find them. You have several locations to go to and many people to talk to in your search. A couple of the features I really like was you actually have a shoot out that you control in one location and in another location, you have to do a real time search to catch the "bad" guys towards the end. Most of the cast members from the show are here (Skinner, The Cigarette Smoking Man, & The Lone Gunmen), but they weren't used nearly enough. There were some cool explosions and the story was pretty good, but they could have made this a little harder in some aspects and a little easier (like being able to get a password for your own computer. Why was this so hard?). Overall, a good game, but just a few more additions and changes and this could have been a great game.I remember my friend and I playing rampage on the n64 (he has it) but then we went to rent a game and we rented rampage 2. so we played it and noticed that there are different monsters now and you have to unlock the original 3. We couldn't save the game (my guess was he didn't have a memory card for his n64) and it was just like the first game but graphics were better and other stuff i don't remember (we played this like, 3 years ago) and i was the rat and he was the rhino. around level 20 we both got GAME OVER!? In the first rampage for the n64, there was no game over (unless you7 quit) but hey, atleast this had bonus levels too. later i got rampage world tour (the first one) and played it with my friends and i beat it like twice. get the first one instead....Then go for this one because the first will get boring over time.One of the very few Nintendo 64 games that I have ACTUALLY mastered. Rampage 2 is a fun game to play. First, you get a choice between six (6) different destructive creatures to go from city to city to smash & destroy buildings, vehicles and consume people. You get the option of 'saving' the game you're playing right at every five games. Starts out in Denver and you go through what I would guess like about 100 cities in the US, UK, Europe, Asia and Australia before hitting Area 51, the Moon and a couple dozen planets and asteroids. Note: the wolf moves the fastest while running through a city and the rhino seems to be the most ruthless. Also, if you hit the L button, the blue button and the Z button at the same time, you'll see that each creature puts out their own special fifteen second source of damage. Only downside of this game is it MAY be to easy for some. Recommended.This game was ok I mean Sub-Zero is my second favorite charecter my first though is Scorpion and he is one of the resons I rented this game.  It was an ok story but nothing really cool so I guess by it if your favorite charecter is Sub-Zero other then that you will just b! t(h about how hard it is.This would have been an absolutely brilliant game if the difficulty level had been low and if the controls had been good. Otherwise it's a great game. The graphics are superb,the sound effects are done quite well. The FMV sequences in between the stages are stunning. The first stage isn't tough to beat ,but from thereon it becomes quite tough and frustating at times. The controls aren't that easy to master. But all in all still a welcome addition to the MK series.We stopped watching the series (lack of time) and so this was a nice way  to keep the excitement going. The game is good, perhaps a little  disorienting at first. I spent the first hour sitting at Craig Willmore's  desk, doing nothing :)
Once you get the hang of it, though, it follows  quite nicely. Because you have so much freedom in navigation (you decide  where to go, but things won't happen until you come back to the right place  at the right time), it feels like the game is non-linear. In fact, it is  rather linear, although you have a few variations. I wasn't disappointed in  the ending, but not thrilled either, it didn't blow me away. We got stuck a  couple of times, but we managed to make it without a walkthrough in about a  week.
The rule of this game is SAVE OFTEN. And organize your saves. Keep  the last save before you change CDs (they correspond roughly to major  developments). You might need to restart from there because you forgot to  do something crucial. Or because you died (I got killed a lot too). You  need lots of frequent saves, and a few less recent, and a few even less  recent not to have to restart from scratch if you believe you forgot  something at the beginning of the game. But overall, the storyline is quite  intuitive and you'll be fine if you make connections.
Buy this game if  you like the series but you're not a fanatic (you'd be disappointed). And  you'll have a good time if you can stand occasionally being stuck and turn  it into a challenge rather than into a frustration.While the name and look of the game feels like an original good old "beat the living #$%* outta opponents" Mortal Kombat game, many like myself were surprised to find that its actually an adventure/platormer styled game!
This however makes Mythologies so unique. The storyline is set BEFORE the first MK game, so it could go in whatever direction it wished...and its all about SUB-ZERO.
Always one of my personal favorites, it was nice to see the blue clad Lin Kuei travel around on a quest full of puzzles, traps, and secret goodies. The way they used the original "motion capture" method like in the first MK games also made this feel like it really WAS part of the Mortal Kombat series. Plus, with cameos from many of Mortal Kombats' lore, its fun and quite catchy to see who pops outta nowhere to be a boss or potential plot twists the first time around.
One thing that makes this sort of frustrating for me is that like ALL Mortal Kombat games, the game is hard even on an easy setting. Also, the timing is a bit off on certain areas of jumping on platforms or even attacking. However, this game continues to be a great game and well worth playing again and again.
Definately worth the buy if you are a Mortal Kombat fan like me, or if you wanna have a pretty good platformer. It isn't the best out there, but it sure is one awesome experience.
FLAWLESS VICTORY!!Mortal Kombat Mythologies Subzero is perhaps one of the most underrated games in the Mortal Kombat lineage. The gameplay is not too far off from MK3. The only issue with gameplay is the turn around button. Otherwise it plays just like 3 with platforming. The story is excellent, although some cinemas seem a bit campy. The difficulty is a bit ramped up, which is annoying, but the story is worth the aggravation.This game actually scared me a couple times, as I witnessed supernatural phenomena via the various monitoring devices, and I wondered what was going to come find me....This is a great game to play if you've ever wanted to be  a paranormal investigator--you get to play with some of the funnest toys  since the Ghostbusters movie!  The only reason I didn't give it more stars  was because it seemed way too short.  It's still a great buy, however!It was defenitely way too short!

I bought & played this game back when I was on Win95 (use WinXPpro now) and I had no problems whatsoever. This game was fun, exciting, creepy, and kept me wanting more. Even after I found things I needed in places, I was still curious to search more and just poke around. The stories were sad and haunting, but so entertaining. I was VERY dissapointed that this was so short and I have been searching for a similiar game ever since, with no luck at all :(

Still, I don't regret buying this....I mean, it's been forever, and I'm STILL searching for a game that can entertain me like this did! I gave Amber 4 stars only because of game length... other than that, I say, you have to play this game!I really enjoyed playing AMBER.  The graphics are good, the sound effects are great, and the storyline dealing with paranormal research makes the most of what draws me to the adventure genre.
To have the best experience with this game, you really need to be patient and pay more attention to exploring your surroundings rather than just want to get through it.  There were several times that I missed necessary items or possibilitites for interaction the first time through a room.  But there are no really difficult puzzles, so rather than run to a walkthrough if you can't find something it's a good idea to just keep looking.  Everything is pretty much in the open.  Also, there are a number of optional activities that a walkthrough might not tell you about, but that it would be a shame to miss.  This is one of those games where the rule is, pick up everything you can and interact with everything you can.  Doing so can only heighten your experience.
The first half of the game is truly spooky, with numerous close encounters of the ectoplasmic kind and lots of paranormal activity showing up on your equipment.  One such encounter actually made my heart stop for a minute, even though I was expecting it.  Another that I wasn't expecting made me afraid to go back to the game for a minute.  The atmosphere of weirdness is aided by the sound effects which are used subtly and with great skill.  You're always thinking you're about to stumble on something unexpected and sometimes you do.  Nothing is very grotesque or frightening in and of itself, but the atmosphere of suspense makes even the ordinary seem hair-raising.
The second half of the game is much quieter.  Entering the three actual ghost "worlds" is almost mundane and somewhat anticlimactic.  When things are spooky, it's more because you're experiencing the reality of a person who is himself creepy, than because the actual events are scary.  I found this both a disappointment and a relief, after the excitement of the initial half of the game.
AMBER is a slide show game in the style of MYST, but I didn't miss the 3-d presentation or 360 degree vision of more recent games.  Navigation was generally pretty easy, although there were one or two places where I had a hard time getting to where I wanted to go.  One ghost world utilised a special diagonal cursor that was very hard to understand;  another featured a view of the world that was pretty distorted (in more ways than one).  Again, in these spots patience was necessary.  Also, the screen size is small.  Setting my monitor to 640 X 480 helped some, but I, at least, found I had to do that manually before playing;  the game doesn't do it for you as most do.
My main complaint with AMBER is that it was too short (I finished it in under 10 hours).  You spent a lot of time setting up, and very little actually accomplishing anything.  Also, the few real puzzles were very easy.  Sometimes I felt like I had barely begun to look at them before I accidentally solved them.  The ending was also a little abrupt.  I wanted more.
If you like games with lots of atmosphere, you will probably like AMBER.  If you like lots of challenging puzzles, you might not.  Still, at under ten bucks it's a worthwhile way to spend a rainy afternoon or two.To modern eyes, this adventure is bound to look somewhat primitive, but just like a good text adventure, its evocative storytelling transcends technology for those who can get beyond the dated graphics and movement  model.
It is a point-and-click game, with a little too much  point-point-point-point-aha!-click, and it suffers from mild  adventure-itis, but there are some downright spooky moments, and great  ambient noises which build and maintain an atmosphere.  Here we see one of  the adventure game's basic flaws (inability to render sentient characters  realistically) used cleverly to create a "haunted" feel. We also  see one the adventure game's primary strengths (the ability to compel the  reader to piece together a story) used to good advantage.
A good one for  late at night with all the lights off and the headphones on.There's a ton of first-person adventure games out there thanks to Myst, but there's nothing wrong with that!  What matters is if the game is enjoyable to play, and in the case of Amber I'd most definately say  yes.
Amber: Journeys Beyond is a first person adventure game with  somewhat simple graphics and animation... but at the same time the plot and  story hold your interest.  The premise is that you are 'checking up as a  favor to a friend' on a woman who bought a haunted house so she could study  the paranormal.  She uses a headset called the Amber device so she can  observe the ghosts and actually travel in the spirit realm.  When you find  her she's in a catatonic state, trapped outside of her body with no way of  geting back.
Your job is to help your friend by guiding the other spirits  in the house to their final rewards by either helping them realize that  they're dead, finding an item that they lost, or helping them finish  something they never completed in life.  There's three people you need to  aid before you can help your friend, and no particular order in which to do  it.
Although the game is only on one CD, and the graphics are simplistic  Amber is still an impressive game for the value.  It has enough ambiance to  make the hairs on the back of your neck stand up more than once (imagine  walking into the bathroom and seeing words write themselves on the mirror).  Amber can scare you, but it does it in a subtle way instead of shoving a  bucketload of gore in your face.  The gameplay is a bit short, but still  much more than you'd normally expect in a single CD game.
If you want an  inexpensive yet interesting adventure this is the game for you.One of those rare cases where a game developer doesn't compromise gameplay in favour of graphics.  Omega Boost gets the best of both worlds.  Though the 360-degree environment can make you dizzy, the addition of the "face forward" button drastically improves ease of controls.  And the backgrounds and characters look sharp but remain responsive, which makes for a great fast-paced shooter.
If anything, I might have wished there would be a little more diversity in terms of weapons, levels, missions and some kind of a story.  Imagine the customizeability of Armored Core coupled with the furious action and beautiful graphics of this game!  However, that didn't seem to be the intention of the designers.  As an old-fashioned "blow-everything-up" shooter, Omega Boost ranks among the best there is to offer.the only reson i got this controller becuse it was the only ones they got and I don't want to wait to go out of town to get a fist party I don't like how it feels pushing both triggers down and hard to remove the vmu other than that it fine but I worried it will brake in like 2 to 3 years time. LIke my firends the had mad catz controler for play station they said it us mess up after a few weeks with the lights .But hoppfuly this will last mush long senic the it has progarm abliy they had to use better parts the psx mad catz controller do not summerised in one intergated chup like the fist parties do .If can get a fist party controller get it they last for very time .If you're a fighting game fan (and don't need an arcade stick), you basically need a pad with six buttons, and this is the only good choice. It's easy to program (and comes preset to most Capcom games anyway), and the analog stick is much firmer than the Sega one (also good), but unfortunately anybody with small hands will HATE this. It's really big, and the buttons are laid out badly (instead of repositioning the original 4, they stuck on Z and C). The D-pad is very nice, but the buttons don't go down easily. All in all, though, if you absolutely must have the extra two buttons (which you do for most Capcom stuff) this is the best option next to an arcade stick. Otherwise, don't bother.controller works. no oo oo oo o o o o o  o oo  ooooo  o  ooooo o oot too shabby.I have used 3rd party controllers for a while now, and this one by mad catz is by far the best. Though it is large, it has a rubberized grip, as well as two turbo buttons for fighting games. The range of motion on the toggle isn't as good as the original by sega, but there again, this is a 3rd party. I think it feels better because of its size, and the feel of the controller, as well as the lower price.Does the job. Works with PS2 controllers too, which was the main reason why I bought this. Quality is sound, not the best.With all due respect to the PC version, I believe the Playstation One version of Quake II is the ultimate version.  Yes, the Playstation version has loading times, but they're not THAT big of a deal.  They're extremely short and hardly an inconvenience.  Also, the rooms were more colorful and it was easier to see what was in front of you in the Playstation version.

The PC version misses out on those things, but it does make up for that by having better animations from enemies and bosses.  But the controls aren't as good as the Playstation controller either (sorry, I need a controller for a video game console because that's what I've grown up with).  The PC version also has some more rooms to explore, so that's nice as well.

Overall, either version is a good purchase, but I personally like the Playstation version more.Quake 2 was one of my first PC games and I loved it, even after all these years I still play it...A little..
The games plot is alright in some specks...I really didn't care for the story to be honest with you but The graphics on this game were great for the year it came out.
The game play was just OFF THE HOOK.  The game plays like doom but BETTER.  The enemy A.I was good too....Not the best but good.
The Best part of the game is of course...THE GUNS!!!!!!  The Guns just plain Kick a$$...
Also the game is fairl long...I enjoyed it..The game is pretty old..Probably 5 years old now.  I doubt you can find this game but if you can GET IT!  This game is not the best game ever made but it will be a solid fun filled game with top notch violence...yea the games pretty violent.
I haven't seen many FPS like Doom Or Quake 2...There great games
IF YOU CAN FIND IT GO OUT AND BUY THIS AWESOME GAME!!
Gameplay 5/5
Graphics 4/5..for its time
Length 4/5..
Over all.....4.5 out of 5
LaterThis is great and I prefer this to Quake 3. This has great music that goes with the action. The story mode will keep you going for adges.Ready to Rumble is a great Boxing game especcially for the Dreamcast.
Gameplay
The gameplay is fun...Kina Cartoony especially the characters.
The combos are sweet.  4/5
Graphics
The graphics for the Dreamcast are great....Very smooth especially Afro Thunder and Buther brown...My two favorite Boxers in the game
Sound
The sound is great.  The crowd the music...It's all good...Nd' I meaaannn It's ALL GOOD! 5/5
Ready 2 Rumble also has Championship mode which is fun.
You can name your gym and buy equipment to train yourself.  And title shots are cool to...But the Prize fights are for the money...
Overall The game is pretty entertaining...It's my favorite Boxing game for the Sega Dreamcast.
Get this game if you have a sega Dreamcast....It's just pure fun!
Later...all in all, this is a very good game.  I like the variety of characters, each with his/her own characteristics.  Gameplay is super easy though.  For the price Amazon.com is selling it for though, go and buy it, you will not  regret it.Don't let the title confuse you, Mortal Kombat Gold is essentially Mortal Kombat 4 with a couple of subtle new features. The main difference between Mortal Kombat Gold and the previous Mortal Kombat games is that it's done with 3D polygonal graphics. The gameplay remains relatively the same, except now each character has their own weapon which can be drawn.  The only other major difference is that Midway decided to exclude the button tap combos from this version.  You have the ability to perform basic button tap combos, but they are short (only about 3-5 hits) and have little variation between each character. Most of the old Mortal Kombat favorites are back in some form or another...Lui Kang, Sub Zero, Scorpion, Cyrax, Katana, ect., plus several new characters as well. Fatalities have also returned and as one might expect, and they are as gruesome as ever presented in the 3rd dimension. The only real fault in Mortal Kombat Gold is the same one that has plagued the series from the beginning...the shallow gameplay compared to other fighting games, and the horribly [bad] AI in the one player mode. Even with the shiny new 3D graphics and weapons, Mortal Kombat 4/Gold is still at it's heart just Mortal Kombat 3.  If you have become tired of the same old Mortal Kombat formula over the years, you can pass up Mortal Kombat Gold and not miss much.  If you still love Mortal Kombat and are looking for a new way to play and rip your opponents to shreds, by all means this is your game.this game is pretty fun.  The graphics are decent, the sound is also above average.  This game is at its best when 4 human players play in a 4 player multiplayer game.  Games are always high scoring when playing with your friends.  This game is a great game if you always have people who will play with you.  But when playing alone this game sucks.  Sure smacking the computer is fun a while, but theres no one to smack talk.  The novelty of hard hits wears off fast.  Also the no pass inerference rule gets cheap.  On easy mode, the computer gets whooped every time beacause they never pass interference, but on hard, the computer will use it on every play, making it frustrating, because it will be so freaking hard to cathc a pass.  For the person with no friends this game may not be right for you.  First of all this game has no season mode for 1 player.  its just arcade mode.  Secondly, there are no things to keep you busy like creat-a-player ( i believe there is create a play, but i would rather have more fun creating players ).  so get this game if you have lots of friends or if there are always people to play with you. if you don't have friends or you are a only child, stick with NFL2k for all you solo gamers.i love this idea every one wants to know where i got the collar necklace love it  love love love thisQuake 3 is completely different than the first two Quake and Doom games. This game is really more Multiplayer based, although I'd rather play alone, since most people who play it online do nothing but write filthy words and insults instead of playing. But I find myself liking this game better than the new Quake 4. This one happens to contain several very fun mini games, like Capture the Flag, Team Arena (Must buy expansion from store), and Team Deathmatch, in which you're on a team of gladiators, all with the same color uniform.

The story to this game is basically just that an alien named Xaero likes to watch people kill each other so he captures all sorts of gladiators from all over the universe and puts them against each other in combat. The character you start with is Sarge, and I suspect he's the same Sarge from Doom 3. You also get to use Ranger, who was the character in Quake 1, and also the character from the original Doom, who's name is Doom. Basically the characters in this game comprise of soldiers, aliens, demons, and cyborgs, all of which come from the other Doom or Quake games, and a few I don't recognize. But I can't figure out why people keep comparing this game to Unreal Tournament. They're two totally different games and shouldn't be compared. This is a Quake game, and UT isn't. But all in all, I found this game incredibly fun. I've spent hours just playing through it multiple times.but still one of the best! tho i wouldnt bother buying this now, mainly bekause quake 4 is gonna kome out sooner or later (and it looks awesome). i still play this game! konsidering how old this game is, u gotta give it some kredit. the graphiks tho now beat by doom3 and halo2, etc. are really not bad. the game maintains the klassik evil statanik kastle type maps, which in my opinion, bring out the fear and the "kill or be killed" type atmosphere. and the bots! this may be bekause of the way the maps are very konfined, but i find the bots in this game much harder to beat kompared to the bots in the ut series. and wahts more u kan sometimes seem to grasp what even sounds like a konversation with some of the bots like "Crash". this is very unlike singleplayer ut, where u never touch the chat button. try it out it kan be funny, tho it usually doesnt work. The weapons are simple and easy to use, some sekondary fire would be interesting tho. a few weapons needed in my opinion are mines (maybe molotov kocktails), flamethrowers, and the ol nailgun. i kant komment on multiplayer, it doesnt seem to work on my komputer but neway i kno that ut has the best online gaming (unless kounterstrike is better, ive never tried that one).  if u don't have this game now, i suggest u download the demo, its basikally all u need. it has the only map i play singleplayer "Q3DM17" i think... however. another good thing about this game is the fakt that there are so many mods! "modifikations" tho now i would suggest people to buy ut2004, (it has the best mods) quake III has kountless downloadable skins, maps, etc, etc, etc. this game is a klassik.You miss, you die. This is basically the premise of Quake 3:Arena. iD software shows once again who's king in the fps deathmatch arena. There is basically no replacement, no contender for Quake 3:Arena which sets a new standard for the deathmatch experience.Stays true to the original. Mass destruction over multiple different levels of tracks. Its fun to play with a large group of people.A lot of people dismiss this game because of the different developers but i personally thought it was a good game.  It was the first twisted metal i have played and when i played twisted metal 2 i thought it was a little better but not much.In my humble oppinion this game is better the Quake II. The graphics is better, and the sound is so much better. If you have a Sound Blaster Live! card, then get this game, because it was designed to run on this card.This game is not receiving the credit it deserves. It's a good quality game. I had a blast playing it. Far more than i did with Twisted Metal 1 and 2. The whole series is awesome and, to me, theres not a bad twisted metal game.NOT terrible, like the other reviews say....

it's solid... just not as good as parts 1 and 2....

but at this point in time, you should be playing the newest version released... look it up!!I played unreal when I was 9 and beat it in a week.
The game is just plain awsome.  Unfortenutly that was 7 years ago and I doubt this will work on XP but when Im at his house I always play this amazing game.  The begining is friggin scary when you're in the abandon space ship and all you hear are the lives of the sapce crew screaming and beging for there lives.
Later you soon find out that they are being torn apart by these disturbing creatures or aliens I might say.  More games should be like this.
The only game to be like this would probably be The suffering cause you here the voices of the CO's getting torn apart by weird disturbing creatures.  Maybe not the only game but there a little few games that are like UNreal.
The begining parts were the best for me.  The scream the horror.  I think this is suppose to be a survival horror game. I donno but Get this game but I think they don't make this game any more?  Any ways get this and UNREAL TURNEMENT.  AWSOME GAMES!i didn't like this game when i first saw it at E3, but when i went back  and played it, it turned out to be pretty good. Not too many boss monsters  (i hate those things), some of the monsters are rather agile, the weapons  are new, the graphics are extremely pretty (nice colors, great water), you  can configure all sorts of things, there are some good guys to help you out  (they show you hidden goodies) and the game makes a lot of effort to be  stable. Hey, they even have a story and little logs you can read to get a  feel for the story.
It's not as story-scripted as Half-Life (but then, it  doesn't have the awful Xen world either), and many people prefer the  realistic weapons of Quake to the unusual ones of Unreal. i like the  built-in bots in multiplayer (i think this was the first game to ship with  them), but i'm told the net play is really slowThere have been many N64 games to brighten up the new generation of gaming.  This game not only has sharp graphics, but it also has great gameplay and is very challenging.I was never a really big fan of sci-fi, and Star Wars just wasn't my thing. I couldn't really care less about those darned rebels. Obviously, my expectations for Rogue Squadron that summer day were not very high.

But you know what? I played the first mission and I was pleasantly surprised. The game actually wasn't that bad!  It was actually quite entertaining just flying around and shooting these drones out from the sky. The game really isn't that easy to learn, especially if you buy the game used without an instruction booklet. There are basically a lot of nooks and crannies that I have yet to figure out, like what right-C does, or how bombs work. But the introductory missions are fun and pretty easy. However, the gameplay got to be quite repetitive. I mean, you just go around and shoot enemies from the sky. Yay. There are also a lot of sections where you have nothing to do, and it gets boring. Maybe I could have moved on to the third mission.

I also realized how visually stunning the game is. I have an Expansion Pak, so I really don't have a clue what the game would be like without it, but the graphics are just so crisp, at least certain features. The buildings and structures and ships and stuff look great, almost to the level of Half-Life. But the graphics for the people/Storm troopers leave more to be desired. They are obviously sprites. The music does have a Star Wars feel to it, and that's growing on me. I sometimes get certain tunes stuck in my head, and I don't mind. Most of the music is in the menus, though. 40 minutes of speech is nice, if only I could understand half of it. Rogue Squadron has no multiplayer, which is too bad. It would have been fun. Oh well. Overall, I actually kind of enjoyed this game.I used to love this game; but now it's dated and now that I look back on it, it's not as fun now, either way, here's my review.

Graphics: 8.5/10. This is a more realistic snowboarding game, so there are very realistic colors; unlike snowboarding kids or anything with very bright colors. 1080 features very realistic physics and is very sophisticated. Anyways, the graphics I remember loving mainly because of the powdery snow. I liked to edge in deep snow just because it was it was so fluffy. For that, this game got what it got in this category.

Sound: 9/10. Whether you go through a foot of snow or right accross jagged ice, there's a different noise. There is a different sound for everything, which is strange because really for the most part in many games on the N64 there is the same or a very similar song for everything in the game.

Control: 8/10. Very, very realistic and solid, but It's frustrating for that reason. it is really realistic so you really have to land FLAT to get land, which can be frustrating for little kids. There is also damage; so if you get beat up a lot you will not win the race.

Fun: 8.5/10. Nice and realistic, great events, and different difficulties for every age and cool characters make this a must play for any  owner of an N64.

9/10This is the best Snow boarding game you can get but you will get tierd of it soonThis game definitly fits the thought I had of a snowboarding game when I set out to buy one. The graphics are moderately realstic, the control is ok, and the sound is mediocre. I think they could of done a lot better job designing a game like this, but this edition suffices.
  It is one of the only snowboarding games on the N64, which was one of the reasons i bought it. Another reason is the outstanding multiplayer coordination. I bought this as soon as I played it at a friend's house. You unfortunatley play with only 2 players at a time, but it is still fun to play your friend head to head.  There are 6 courses, and under single player you can also do half pipe and air make. There are 5 characters that you can use to race, and more of which you can unlock. since there are only 60 head to head course combinations, there are other things you can do, like trick or time attacks.
  This can take a bit to get used to, as it can be boring for the single player. If you have a will and a friend however, this game will surely be worth it.In comparison to other N64 games, this piece is a worthwhile buy.  The single player mode is challenging enough to warrant playing for a while to unlock the secret characters.  Two player mode gets pretty boring, pretty quickly because there are only 6 tracks to race on so there's not much variety.  The stunt mode is the main appeal of the game and could easily occupy you for hours.  However, it soon just becomes a thumb spinning frenzy for points.  Given this is fun for a while but it gets all that white junk inside the control stick holder, and ruins thumb coordination for the rest of the day.  So buy this game and spin in circles to your heart's content.Rainbow Six really brought me into computer gaming. Before I never played games on computers. Now that I've played and owned this I play this and Rogue Spear, (the sequal), all the time. The game really brought a new  setting to all gamers. Your free in the enviroment, the action is intense  and challenging, the terrorists are out and dangerous. Everything is  perfect. It's like your there. The game has great graphics and non-stop  action. It's intense and you sit on the edge of your seat the whole time.  The weapons in this game don't have the great collection like Rogue Spear  does, but once your in the setting your weapons don't matter that much. If  you like first person shooters or any swat team type of games than you'll  like this. It's a classic. BUY IT!i liked a lot some time that i haven't play a wonderfull game very simply and funny game verry good game.This Game is Awesome in every way except it only has 5 Mguns 1 Sgun and a few pistols, and the storyline moves toooo quickly but the graphics and stealthy music make up for the minor loss quickly.  iF You beat R6, and  Eagle Watch (like me) then get Rouge SpearI have played this game again and gain and again.  it has an wit and humor about ti that makes you laugh along with wonderful charecters and a diverse and suprising story line.  puzzles are moderate in hardness and the whole thing is like a movie.  I felt my self saying aww in dissapointment when it was over.  (i wanted to keep playing!)  I LOVE this game.Final Fantasy 7 is yet another gold brick in the shimmering castle of Squaresofts frequent triumphs. You will fall in love with the characters, you'll wish you could jump right into the world. The game's events are structured very well(except for the ever-present "level up before the final boss" stage of the game). The graphics are wonderful in their own right. It's just as deep and enthralling as any Final Fantasy should be.
But, to be honest, it's a hassle to bother with the PC version. It's best to get a playstation and play it that way. FF7's system requirements are strict and tend to make the game look and run worse than on the Playstation even if you have a good computer. And keyboard control is no fun at all(ironically, I used a gamepad that resembles the PS controller). And otherwise, this is a striaght port so you're not missing anything if you go for the PS version. But, if you refuse to/can't buy a playstation, this version is better than nothing and you certainly won't want to miss out.Grim Fandango is best described as a detective story in the Film Noir tradition.  The hero of the piece, Manny Calavera, evokes the private eye of the 1940's or '50's melodrama whose story begins with a dame walking  into his office and who quickly finds himself enmeshed in a vast and  corrupt conspiracy which may do him in. The difference here is that at the  beginning of this story, Manny is already dead, and the events transpire in  the Land of the Dead, the place where, according to Mexican folklore,  departed souls go to embark on their journey to the hereafter.
Blending  Mexican folk mythology with the Film Noir genre, Grim Fandango is  ultimately respectful of both traditions, and the striking art design is in  keeping with this approach, combining Art Deco and pre-Columbian elements.  The dialogue, refreshingly witty and literate, draws the player in to the  characters and the story, as does the varied musical score, which includes  Mexican folk melodies.
The characters are for the most part vividly  drawn, and due to the superb performances by the voice talent (particularly  Tony Plana as Manny and Maria Canals as Meche) are fresh despite their  mostly formula roles. One character which may provoke mixed reactions is  that of Glottis, Manny's driver. A cartoonish, Jar Jar Binks-like figure,  Glottis skews the story in a younger direction (at odds with the mild  epithets employed by other characters in a few instances), and while my  children liked Glottis, I expect most players will find him either  endearing or irritating.
The interface in this game is unusual. Rather  than pointing and clicking with a mouse, the player controls Manny's  movements with the arrow keys, waiting to see Manny's head turn to an  object he becomes interested in and clicking "enter" to see what  happens. This approach takes some getting used to, and can be cumbersome at  times, but it places Manny at the center of the action and increases the  player's identification with Manny, ultimately serving the story.
The  puzzles, many of which are multi-step, involve crafting Rube Goldberg  solutions to various problems. Some of the solutions are thoroughly  counterintuitive (I won't give anything away, but let's just say that  objects such as balloons or a crystal paperweight are employed in bizarre  ways), and are best solved through aggressive trial and error.  Clues may  pop up from time to time to expedite this sometimes tedious process. That  aside, the Lucasarts team, especially writer Tim Schafer, deserve high  praise for this highly original and literate adventure.Really enjoying the game!
I did freeze up once though. I hope it was just a glitch and not an indication of a greater issue with this carriage.A good first person shooter. It really set the bar for Call of Duty and Metal of Honour. Lots of levels and weapons. Good, challenging enemies and fun cheats. I only rated it 4 stars because to me, a 5 star game has to be flawless. But, overall a great game.This used to be an all time favorite game of mine when I was a kid.  I don't even understand how I was able to move and shoot.  New games/controllers have made things sooo easy that this game is tough just to walk/aim.  With a little practice and lots of deaths you should be fine.This is when I fail in love with music and gaming but one of the toughest games yet to date.Hard to believe it has been almost 20 years since the release of Goldeneye. It makes me feel old and decrepit. Those were the days of actually sitting down with your friend and playing multiplayer together. Xbox Live and online has since essentially ruined those days of genuine bro bonding. Now texting and Facebook has taken over anything social with letter writing and actually picking up the phone and calling someone is becoming rarer. It's sad really!

Thankfully we can go back to simpler times and dust off the 64 and play Goldeneye. What was I even doing in 1997? I was 10 and had not one care in the world. All the main players are here doing the actual voicework and even the director of the Goldeneye film directs the gameplay. The graphics are still passable but something I didn't remember is the extreme slowdown during lots of on-screen explosions or action. It can take quite a bit outta the game and cause the shooting of your weapon a slight delay or lag. Not a complete game changer but certainly takes a point away from an otherwise excellent game.

The kills are hilarious, shoot a guy in the leg he hops, or he will hold his wound and croak slowly. Really amazing and funny AI here, certainly revolutionary as they will even attempt to hide behind cover. Not sure the exact number of missions, maybe around 20? Including the jungle, snowy and runway areas. Bond sports the classic PP7 along with other cool gadgets and weaponry, you can even man a tank in a certain mission. The cheats are great, including a paintball mode, all guns and others. The juiciest part of the game is certainly the multiplayer. Nothing beat grabbing a few friends and karate chopping away at each other or just use the throwing knives.

Definitely a game that revolutionized console FPS shooters. A definite must have for all retro gamers and Bond fanatics alike.I was hoping the game would be more complete and have the cheat codes, but the cartridge was in excellent condition and the game worked flawlessly.I have to admit, it's not as enjoyable (at least to me) as Tomb Raider 1 & 2. This game does have much larger and more in depth worlds than the previous installments, but the fact that you can choose the order in which you complete the three worlds in between the first & last (something that, on the surface, is a pretty cool idea) makes me feel like, if I'm having trouble in one area, I'm wasting my time. I'd have to guess the reason is I love to see the level designs for the different regions & if I can go wherever I want, there's no real reward in completing anything.

But, I digress- still building from weapons, skill sets & basic traps/ puzzles from the previous two games with several new elements like quicksand, thieving monkeys, deadly piranha swarms, a freeze-to-death meter for the final Antarctica world alongside the breath meter & more. Brings back Eidos' weird dinosaur fetish they appear to have had in the 90s full force (All three of the original Tomb Raider games have dinosaurs, as well as at least one other Eidos game from the same general time called Deathtrap Dungeon. It doesn't make sense because it's a fantasy game, but neither do the 2 T-Rexes under the Great Wall of China in Tomb Raider 2.) And the PC version, once again, has bonus levels. Search for Tomb Raider 3: The Lost Artifact if interested.Never played this when I was a kid, but decided to purchase a classic game as I'm trying to build my own personal PS1 collection.Ok, alot of people hate this game - but i cant complain with it. Although some of the levels are annoying (i hate the 2nd level of india with a passion) at least it held mostly to the name of Tomb raider (the 2nd, and 4th onwards) should be named "City Raider" the graphics are kinda yellowish. the lighting can be harsh. but its a lengthy game - took me almost 6months to beat (partially cause i jumped triliogy installments)but its an ok game. its better than the 2nd, and way better than all the others afterwards - but doesnt messure up to the original.Yes, TR3 is a bear (so to speak ;-).  E.g., there's a particular spot at the very outset of the game, hiding under the leaves, which you have to make a blind leap to find, and would never guess is there if someone hadn't told you.  But that is in the grand old tradition of Adventure -- the one point remainder (a postage stamp, usually, in the old days, or dropping the magazine in a particular place when you're at your wit's end).  The impossible puzzle drags you out of the game and forces you to kickstart your social life, and ASK REAL PEOPLE for the answer.  Very legitimate.  Same as, "Don't kill monks at Barkhang Monastery" (TR2), and don't kill monkeys either (TR3)!  This game is a heckuva lot of fun on a great many levels OTHER THAN gameplay.  It's full of visual splendors that rival the next to last discontinuous maze of TR2, and I enjoy everything about it ... except playing.  The game part is tedious, unfair and annoying beyond belief.  But it's a real collector's item, especially on PlayStation 2 (be sure to keep your PS1 memory card!), and in our family, it's in its second generation of total immersion.I own a playstation but i hardly think it's that great a console. Blame it on the N64 for their exceptional games- but i do believe that the Playstation may have some hope left in it.
Well Tomb Raider 3 is a good  example. This is a huge game with a lot of 3D explosions and gunfire and  lots of jumping. Also if you have something against people and animals,  then you won't be dissappointed either.
You also get to blow uo raptors  and a T-rex by the way. Despite being a solid title, i beta the game long  ago and have since went on to other 'pursuits' like Zelda. I'm not gonna  compare the two, mind you, but let's say that while TL3 is a really good  game and somewhat long- it's not gonna make a classic or give Mario or  Sonic a run for their money.
Simply put, all the TR games are long and  filled with adventure. Lara's cute and i like this game but it's just not  gonna be what i'm looking for long-term.
It's also tedious to have to  play through it again. I think it's a mood-game; you're likely to bore  through the WHOLE thing when you're in the mood, and that sounds  extreme.
But as you can tell 4 stars is saying alot cause this game  definetely restores my faith in the playstation and it's over-rated games.
If Lara were to make the jump to the Dolphin- i wouldn't be surprised;  Tomb Raider always had the potential to be a great game; it's just that  sometimes- you need a lot of patience and perhaps, this will fit  nicely.
Finally, the graphics and the sound are passable. Levels are  detailed but heavily pixelated and sound sounds cranky or too soft at  times.
But given any new Lara Croft game, i'll be excited and i'm looking  foward to the new game after the last one last Christmas.The game is overrated. Don't get sucked into all the hype. It's more nostalgic for the people who played it when it first came out. The graphics are honestly really bad and the controls make you feel like you're drunk. I guess that's where the fun is though, because honestly I really did like the game. I played through it and although the gameplay schematics were a bit...strange, it was oddly addicting. Multiplayer is a lot of fun though when you have friends sitting down in the basement all hooked up. It can get pretty intense on split screen, seriously. 5 stars for the split screen! 4 stars overall because the gameplay was repetitive and the graphics were vomit. They could have been better for the time period and the N64 was capable of handling better than this. Still, worth the buy. Get it.Overall I can't complain, but the cartridge was a little dingy. Still, nothing a magic eraser couldn't fix! By chance alone I received an uncommon copy only sold for retail demonstration!was a good purchase don't get me wrong. but i had a minor problem with it saving. at first it wouldnt save for the first 3 or 4 times. but eventually it did. other than that it worked great. awesome condition. came as described.I came upon this game in the late 90s/early 00s. Me and a couple of friends would play it religiously and I must say that although the characters are better and more original in this game, Perfect Dark (if you haven't had a chance to play that) is the superior shooter.

They both are fun in their own right though. They were both made by Rare which did WONDERS for the N64 gracing us with the aforementioned games and also Diddy Kong Racing which I played for hours on end with friends also.

Fun levels to play in and the music was pretty damn good too. Like I said, I liked the characters, Natalia being my absolute favorite and I kept coming back to this game.

Even the single-player mode was fun. Just not nearly as fun as the multi-player mode.

Fun: Single-Player: C+ Multi-player: B+
Sound: B-
Characters: B+
Controls: A-

Overall: BThe only down side is that these guides are not from Nintendo, so there's very little original art work and a lot of information. How ever the hardcover and golden side shets make it an elegant product.this ganme was very entertaining i really enjoyed it i'm not to fond of these types of games but goldeneye was awesome.This game was okay - it could've been better.  I like the story, it's way different than it is in the movie - it's more fun.  But like I said before, Perfect Dark 64 is the new Bond.  The main story is fun and so is the multiplayer combat.  There's a crap load of Bond characters to unlock and levels too.  But I'm not a Bond fan, in fact, I hate Bond!  But this game is fun.I highly recommend this game as a GREAT classic. It will feel dated and look terribly pixelated on your 90" screen, but it is a game worth playing. Pull it out for a day of "Reminiscent Gaming" or as a chance to dive deeper  into the universe that is Zelda.Classic game. A favorite when I was a kid. Still fun to this day, I just wish the graphics were better! Got to remember this game is from 98 and one of the first 3D games of it's time! Great game.Banjo Kazooie is a game I've played many times since I got it in the early 2000s and while its fun, its not the most entertaining game I've played. There's two main objectives in Banjo Kazooie: hunting and gathering. You hunt for these jigsaw pieces called Jiggys to help you complete jigsaw puzzles to open worlds. You gather all sorts of items within each level like musical notes, Jinjos, Mumbo tokens, feathers, etc. This concept gets boring after awhile but nevertheless the game is pretty fun as a whole. I'd recommend the sequel, Banjo Tooie, instead as its 10 times more entertaining.I had to use a Gameshark to get the extra levels on this game.  It's tough.  It shows you just how hard it would be to be a secret agent.

There are two features about this game that I really like.  The first is what I'd like to call maim-ability.  If you shoot someone in the leg, they'll hold onto their leg, same with the arm, the head, and even the groin.  Before this game, the most you could hope for was that characters would bleed when they were shot and fall down when they'd die.

Still maim-ability doesn't mean that when you shoot them in the leg they won't be able to run again.  They'll limp for a few seconds and then be as good as new, except take a lot less shots to kill.

Some of the tougher characters take a lot of hits before they're even to the point of getting to maim-ability.  You have to shoot the boss of the game 10 times in the head before he even shows signs of weakening.

The second thing I like about this game is the spy feel of it.  You go on missions, and you work with gadgets (although some are indeed lame).  But the cool thing is, on some missions, you've got to be really quiet and sneaky.  You sneak down halls and pick off unsuspecting guards one by one with well-aimed shots.  Of course, if you get bored of that, you can always make a lot of noise, have a bunch of guards come after you, and blow everyone away.

This game is pretty realistic.  There may be better games now, but during its time, this game was cutting-edge stuff.  It's worth remembering, even though it was hard as heck.  I usually just like playing the easy levels and maiming bad guys quietly.Developer Rare is a master at infusing originality into their imitations. This isn't a knock against them. William Shakespeare pulled stories and plots from other writers and crafted masterpieces. Rare is gamedom's Shakespeare, in that regard. Banjo-Kazooie is obviously influenced by Super Mario 64, although it's always unfortunate for a game to be compared to that masterpiece. While Banjo-Kazooie lacks Super Mario 64's magic and ingenuity, it has its own magic that sets it apart from Nintendo's behemoth.

The Good:
+ A fun story
+ An imaginative use of its characters
+ Creative worlds to explore

The Bad:
-- Too easy and short
-- The few parts that are too hard

The Ugly
? Why is Kazooie so insulting?

Story--9/10

The first thing that stands out is the dialogue, especially of the evil witch, Gruntilda, or Grunty, who speaks in clever rhymes. It's refreshing all the more that what she says is often funny. The game begins with her asking her mirror, "Who is the most beautiful of them all?" Of course, it couldn't be Gruntilda. There's nothing even remotely pretty about a fat, green hag. The most beautiful of them all is Banjo's younger sister, Tooty (who looks similar to Tiny Kong of Donkey Kong fame). So Grunty sets off to kidnap Tooty and succeeds, leaving only the mole, Bottles, as a witness. Bottles must survive a downpour of Kazooie's insults and witticisms to explain the kidnapping to Banjo and Kazooie. The question becomes, can Banjo and Kazooie save Tooty before Grunty robs her of her beauty and transfers it to herself?

Gameplay--8/10

Here is the game's bane and boon. Everything else sets it up wonderfully. The soundtrack is great, the visuals are very nice, and the opening story sequence is funny. The game controls smoothly and you have plenty of moves to learn and use throughout. The levels are varied, with plenty of collectibles and other goodies to discover. But these levels are so small, so short, so easy. I never spent an hour and a half on any one level, and most of them took less than an hour to complete. In that time, I could collect ten jigsaw puzzle pieces, one hundred musical notes, and numerous other items such as the Mumbo Jumbo skulls, extra lives, and Jinjos. Compared to Super Mario 64, I can't help but say, is that all?

There are a total of nine worlds, as well as a main hub world, which is too labyrinthine for its purpose. Rare goes a little overboard as to the amount of collectibles they expect gamers to gather. Unless you use cheats, it takes 94 out of the 100 Jigsaw pieces total to unlock every single world, including the final fight with Grunty. That's not too difficult, as I'd say about 97 of those Jigsaw pieces are a piece of cake. More than 880 of the 900 music notes are needed in order to give you somewhat of a chance against the unfairly difficult fight with Grunty (you just can't count on Rare to make a strictly children's game: see Diddy Kong Racing).

These are mostly criticisms, but they comprise a small percent of the game. You will spend most of it enjoyably. Despite the very easy difficulty, it isn't boring. There's plenty to explore in the levels, and as they go on, they become larger and more complex, especially the sprawling final level. Rare flexes all of its creative muscles in that level, revolving around the four seasons, and even includes a few semi-stories with some new characters. Not that the other levels are clunkers, but if only they could provide the same sort of entertainment, the rest of the game would have been that much more enjoyable.

Longevity--5/10

A game should only be as long as it needs to be, but I think Banjo-Kazooie needed to be a little longer. Considering what Nintendo did years earlier in Super Mario 64, it's no excuse that Rare couldn't match that level of magnitude. But it's unfair to compare any game to Super Mario 64. Most gamers will complete this, all 100 Jigsaw pieces, almost all 900 music notes, in less than twelve hours. After finishing it, there's no reason to go back. The cheats only give you infinite resources, but what's the point when you've already finished the game? The only way a game like this can extend its life is for the single player adventure to be a little longer.In recent memory, strategy guides have become less of a necessity and more of a collector's item.  For every game nowadays there is a guide to accompany it.  Sometimes there's a collector's edition guide as well.  For collector's these are sometimes a lot of fun.  For Zelda fans that enjoy Zelda lore this collection is a fantastic buy.  There is a limited number in print and it's simply amazing to behold.  It's great packaging and actually has things in there specifically for collectors.

Before I begin I want to stress that this review won't be going into the content of each guide.  With the exception of the Skyward Sword guide, each of these guides is exactly the same as their standard (and separately released) collector's edition counterpart.  The reason Skyward Sword is not the same is because this copy was revised and expanded upon.  Aside from that, the other five guides are largely unchanged from their original releases.  There are subtle differences but nothing that greatly changes the actual content in the guide.

To begin, the guides come packaged in a box that looks like a chest.  When you open it up there are six hardbound guides in there.  The covers all look very similar.  Each one having an embossed Hyrule symbol on them.  The covers and the borders are different on each guide.  The six guides included are for Twilight Princess, Phantom Hourglass, Spirit Tracks, Ocarina of Time 3D, Skyward Sword and the Windwaker HD.  All the guides have gold leaf pages that are shiny when looking at them from the side.

There are a couple of things to note about the guides themselves.  The first is that it seems just a little strange that the guides themselves are not actually individually shrink wrapped.  This seems a little odd.  It's not that big of a deal but when you open the packaging they're already loose.  Considering each original release came shrink wrapped it's a little strange.  Perhaps the thing that some consumers might mind is that none of these guides come with their respective extras.  Anything that was considered a bonus for getting the collector's edition guide isn't here.  Likewise, when this particular collection was announced, The Legend of Zelda: A Link Between Worlds simply wasn't planned for the package.  So anyone hoping this guide comes with the collection are out of luck.  That's no big deal.

There are also a couple of things to note here about only a couple of guides.  The first and most obvious is the Ocarina of Time 3D guide.  Prima NEVER actually released a hardcover edition of this guide.  Ever.  This is the first time that Ocarina of Time 3D players will get to grab this guide in hardcover.  Originally the guide was only in paperback.  This makes the collector's value certainly worthwhile as it means that the guide will have much more limited hardcover run than all the other guides here.  This boxset is more or less your only chance to get it.

The second thing of note is that the Skyward Sword guide included here is NOT the same as the one originally published.  It has been revised and expanded.  Even the layout is very different from the original guide itself.  It has been revised and expanded by over 100 pages.  It is almost a completely new guide from the original one that was released.  So yes, this one too is a rarity because you won't have much luck finding it outside of this particular box set.

There are a couple of subtle differences between some guides and the originals.  Most notably is the Ocarina of Time 3D guide.  The original guide was around 224 pages and written in three columns.  Here it's 288 pages and is written in two columns.  It's a lot easier to read and a lot cleaner as a result.  Much of the text isn't so cramped.  Some moments in the Ocarina of Time 3D guide pop out a lot easier.  It just looks better and more organized overall.  The Legendary Checklist in the Ocarina of Time Guide is also better looking.  The tables are easier to read and easier on the eyes.  Likewise, the Legendary Checklist in the Twilight Princess Guide is A LOT easier to read and A LOT less cramped.  In the original guide the entire checklist was on a single page with just the location.  Here it's expanded to be in a table format, the font is bigger and it now lets you know your first chance to complete it as well as telling you what's required.  The Phantom Hourglass and Spirit Tracks guides are virtually unchanged from their initial releases.  The Windwaker HD is pretty much the same as well.  So for those wondering about whether or not they've changed some things from the original guides, the answer is yes.  Quite simply put some of them are a tad easier to read.

The set also came with a few bonuses of note.  The first and probably most valuable of all, is that you get a certificate of authentication from Eijo Aonuma that is signed and numbered.  The second is a laser etched metallic bookmark.  For collectors this package is a pretty sweet deal.  It's invaluable.  The only thing I wish we could've gotten would have been to actually get all the extras the guides themselves actually came with.  It is more or less the only thing I feel is missing and keeping it from being a complete package.  Part of what made the guides collector's editions aside from the hardcovers was actually getting little bonuses that didn't come with the guide otherwise.

Nevertheless, for the fan of Zelda this is a good buy.  But let's be clear.  If you are buying this, chances are it is probably not to actually utilize the guides themselves.  After all, many of the games these guides are for have been out for a while and, truthfully, you could just buy them on their own if you really wanted them for strategy.  They are a collector's item.  And it is certainly a nice one.This was the first C&C game I ever purchased. I got this game when I wasn't playing much else apart from EVERQUEST, upon a friends recommendation. I wasn't to familiar with the C&C franchise of RTS games from Westwood. Now I am a fan of the series.
If you don't know, TIBERIAN SUN is a RTS about two military forces at odds with one another. The evil NOD, that wants to rule the world, while the honorable GDI wants to protect the world. The single player missions are on two discs. One is GDI and the other disc is the NOD single player missions. Both are quite fun and it helps you to learn the gameplay. I can't say I liked the full-motion-video sequences, but they are quite funny in an unintentional way!
The online multiplayer is where the real fun of TIBERIAN SUN is at! There just is no way to describe winning a long 2 hour match online and not getting booted off!
This is a good value for the money. It may not be as great as AGE OF EMPIRES or STARCRAFT, but TIBERIAN SUN is fun nonetheless. Enjoy!When I first got the game, it was "Wow", thinking it would be the best.  I have to admit, it is better than some games I have already played, but it just didn't have the zing of the other C&C games.
The computer stinks.  I could beat them playing as GDI(good guys), which is hard because NOD(bad guys) has all the best vehicles, units, and structures.  I love the Missile Silo.  Talk about blitzcrieg on your opponent!!  If you want to have about a 65% chance of winning, stick with NOD.
I wouldn't recommend the missions, because they are all too easy or all too hard.  I stick to skirmish and internet games myself.
I might venture to say that it is worth an inexpencive look.  Maybe even borrowing it from a friend.
All-in-all, I would have to say that the graphics are superb, stories are bad,  sound is so-so, and gameplay is dependant on which side you choose(NOD being better).Okay I admit it, the two main reasons I bought this game are James Earl  Jones and Michael Biehn, whom I believe are bloody great. However, the game  in itself is lots of fun. I'm making my way through the GDI games at the  moment, and having a good time!I have been looking forward to receiving this set since I learned about and pre-ordered it back in August. I am a huge Zelda fan and always wanted to get my hands on the strategy guides, but never seemed to get around to buying them when they first released and, over time, they became very expensive. This works out great because we can get all of the Collector's Edition guides, plus one never released and only available in this set (Ocarina of Time) for a great price - each guide ends up being less than $20 each not including the packaging.

As other have said, the packaging is wonderful. The treasure chest box is better quality than I had anticipated and the gold, metal etched bookmark is gorgeous! The actual shipping packaging was great, as well - very well protected with lots of foam so it arrived in pristine shape.

The guides themselves are gorgeous! Great detail and amazing artwork. I also love how the paper edges are golden - it gives it a very classy look. I have yet to actually read through them, let alone use them, so I can't say how accurate and useful they are, but I am sure the do their job and then some. I was very concerned about the Skyward Sword guide because the reviews for the original version were absolutely terrible. Fortunately, however, I read that it has been updated to meet the quality of all of the other guides, so that was a huge sigh of relief.

I do have a few gripes for this set, though. They are quite minor in the grand scheme of things, so it didn't kill it for me too much - they are just things I wish they would have included.

First, I am very disappointed that no guides were made for the older Zelda games, i.e. Zelda I and II for NES, Link to the Past for SNES, LInk's Awakening for Gameboy, etc. I wouldn't even mind if they threw several games into one or two books to make it more efficient - it would just have been nice to have guides for every Zelda game in one set.

Second, I was disappointed they didn't leave an empty slot for A Link Between Worlds. They've had this planned for a while and have had to have known the game was coming out the same time as this, as well as the collector's edition guide. Not a huge deal, but again... would have been a nice consideration.

Third (and this is just something I would have thought to be cool - not dinging this set at all for not doing it) it would have been INCREDIBLE if they had some sort of audio device inside that makes the chest opening music from say Ocarina of Time when you open it - similar to when you open a greeting card with pre-recorded messages. Perhaps someday I will figure out how to do it myself - until then I will have to just sing the tune myself :)

Finally, I am sad that some of the bonus content that came with the guides when they were originally released weren't included. I will be honest, I don't know which guides came with what, but I have seen others complain about this, stating that Twilight Princess in particular came with a few goodies.

Overall, I am very happy with this set. For Zelda fans, it is a must buy especially if you don't own many or any of these guides already. Thanks for reading!I have always liked this game overall, and it will always have a special place in my heart. With that said, the rubberbanding A.I. in this game is beyond ridiculous. No lead is safe as the game cheats to catch up to you by increasing the speed of its controlled drivers to higher than they can possibly go. I don't know if later Mario Kart games ditched the rubberbanding A.I., but its presence is strong in this one.This pretty good, it has a good story, great in-game movies and adequate gameplay. However most of the marketing for this game has centered around it being a sequel to Red Alert. This is simply not true. The two games have  almost nothing in common and Red Alert is a far better game. In saying this  I mean that Tiberian Sun takes a huge step BACKWARDS in terms of gameplay  from Red Alert. Gone are the ships and air planes to be replaced by boring  helicopters and cheap "hover units".
  However this game is  not a total waste it has a very good storyline and execellent cinematics,  featuring performances by several Hollywood stars (well maybe not stars but  close enough). The graphics are pretty good but other games have done  better.
  Sure it's a classic and if you really like the series go  ahead and buy it. But if you want the true best strategy game of 1999, go  and check out Homeworld it's a far better game.I have to admit something, I love the way this game looks!  It is spectacular in the graphics sense, but the story just left me out to dry.  The orginal command and conquer storyline was way better.  The GDI missions  are a joke in this game and I have to say it...NOD RULEZ!  The NOD missions  are very fun to look at and play especially the evil HAL computer that  talks to you in the cool voice.  The game play units are completely  unbalanced!  On GDI side, all you have to do is amass a huge army of Tank  Mechs and you can destroy any base no matter how fortified it is.  On the  NOD side, amass a huge army of 30 mobile artillery and nobody can stand in  your way.  The game is worth buying to see how it looks, but the gameplay  is horrible and some of the missions are close to impossible which may  frustrate some novice players.  Ok Westwood you have provided the  interface, now quit slacking and give us a good story!Sticker label is quite faded but i guess ok for acceptable condition.  other than that cartridge is clean, works great, shipped fast.  Highly satisfied.it was fun finding the differences in the pictures, but it got boring when the same pictures kept comming up. it would have been better NOT to have a time limit on these games.  that just makes it harder and frustrating for beginners like me.  i am handicapped and disabled and don't move that fast.  also i just turned 61, so i'm not that fast mentally either.  there should be an option to choose if you want it to be timed or not.  there should be that option on ALL games.I've had this game since way back when it was released; I just never got the chance to write a review.

The Story: Banjo's sister, Tooty, was "the most beautiful girl around" and Grunty the witch wanted her beauty, so she pulled an Amber Alert and took her to her lair. Banjo's lazy bum the whole time was sleeping. It's up to you to get jiggy's and notes and what-not to stop Grunty and get Banjo's sister back.

Graphics: 9.5/10. Awesomely different and creative worlds. From a sewer, to a pirate ship on an island, to a desert and into an icy snowland, there are tons of different and unique worlds to play through. The graphics are stellar for the N64, with bright colors and cool characters with good animations. This is one of the best N64 games as far as graphics go next to games like Donkey Kong 64 and Legend Of Zelda: Majora's Mask.

Sound: 9/10. There aren't really any voices in this game; just kind of sound effects that are different for each character. Blubber on Treasure Grove Cove sounds like he's burping or throwing up, Kazooie sounds like a gagging bird, Banjo sounds like a big old hick of a bear... and so on. The music in this game, though, is some of the catchiest and the best music i've heard in really any adventure game. The music doesn't really get old, and whoever created it is brilliant. Overall, the sound is really, really good.

Control: 8.5/10. Being an adventure game, there are a lot of different controls for a lot of different moves. And since the N64 controller is the way it is ( pretty annoying ) it's easy to get confused even after playing for hours on end, just because you go brain dead. The controls are a bit strange at first to do some of the attacks, but you will get used to them anyways.

Fun: 9/10. A great game from beginning to end. Get the jiggys, move on. Get the notes, move on. That simple? No. This game is challenging and is for all ages, even if it does have a kiddy approach. The game lasts maybe 40 hours or so depending on how fast you get through the game. Great characters, great level design, and fantastic music makes this a must buy. This is one of the best games on the N64, and I.M.O., the best adventure game. Pick this game up now; it is better than its sequel and the Game Boy Advanced ones, even if all three are fantastic. Buy this game!!

9.3/10If you own a N64 and are looking for a game to play, go to your local game store and find Banjo-Kazooie! In my opinion, this game is simply amazing. The main plot throughout the game is that Banjo the bear and his faithful breegull sidekick Kazooie are attempting to rescue Banjo's little sister Tootie from the evil witch Gruntilda. Enjoy the game as you explore 10 exciting worlds, collect numerous puzzle pieces(open worlds), and rescue your sister from the evil clutches of Gruntilda.