With the Nintendo 64 beginning to slowly...okay, quickly drop off the gaming radar, it's time for gamers who bought the last of the Big N's cartridge systems to see if their investment was a good one. Is there even a reason to keep this system around anymore? Is there one game to give you an excuse to say to Playstation2 and X-Box and Gamecube owners, "I know it's an old system, but this game is the reason I still own it"? Yes, and that game is called "Golden Eye 007".
It's hard to believe that a game based off the best of the Pierce Brosnan "Bond" movies would become an undeniable classic. But that's exactly what "Golden Eye" is. Many first-person shooters try to overwhelm gamers with unbelievable graphics while offering no depth in gameplay, while others try to create complex game engines with passable graphics and end up only frustrating players. Thankfully, "Golden Eye" is the diamond in the rough. It takes a remarkably simple control scheme and graphics that were good for its time and combines them in an unbeatable combination. Moving Bond, James Bond is as easy as breathing, and the shooting system is just as simple. Even with the horrible N64 controller, a player can learn how to play "Golden Eye" on the first or second try. And its gameplay is so addictive because of the stunning level designs and adequate AI. Of course, because of the N64's difficult-to-program cartridge format, some things had to be sacrificed, like detailed textures and realistic AI responses to being shot. But the overall experience is enough to overlook such trivial matters.
Graphically, "Golden Eye 007" was a marvel to look at...when it was first released. Nowadays, when compared to games like "Metal Gear Solid 2" for the PS2 and "Dead or Alive 3" for the X-Box, "Golden Eye" looks like a SNES game. Because cartridges are limited in space, textures can be bland, character models look blocky, and detail is kept to a passable minimum. But anyone who doesn't care about graphics, as long as they are good enough and the gameplay is excellent, shouldn't have any trouble with "Golden Eye".
Soundwise, it's not the biggest strength of the game, but it's still good. Sounds like gunshots are remarkably well done - a player can tell what kind of gun he or an enemy is firing just by listening to it, at least to a certain extent. And voices, while limited to overdone grunts and questionable laughs, suit the game well. It would've been nice to hear full voiceovers for important characters, but the limitations of the cartridge format doesn't help this area much.
All in all, "Golden Eye" is undoubtedly a classic of modern gaming. While the N64 is arguably one of the worst Nintendo consoles to be released (alongside the horrendous Virtua Boy), it still had some incredible games that managed to sustain it until the Gamecube was announced. "Golden Eye" is not only the game that many FPS fans point to as their favorite game, but many non-FPS gamers also found it very enjoyable. While later great first-person shooters like the N64's "Perfect Dark" and the recent X-Box million-seller "Halo" presented excellet FPS action with updated graphics to boot, "Golden Eye" will forever be remembered as the first-person shoot for the masses.
If you need a reason to keep your N64, this is it!