It still boggles my mind how amazing this game is.  I cannot even think or read about it without getting giddy.  Another Zelda game just came out-- Skyward Sword-- and reviewers have been raving about its story and art work and graphics, etc, etc, etc. But it still doesn't compare to Ocarina of Time. Not even close. I have played many, many games, and there is no question, this is still the best game ever.  No one here is lying.  It deserves every one of those endless 5-stars. There is a massive chasm separating this game from every other game fighting for second place. No other game even comes close.
Why? In order of importance, least to greatest:
1) Graphics.  With consoles now like the 360 sporting games like Halo: Reach, and the PS3 with the Uncharted series, there is some serious competition for artwork and graphics.  But the Ocarina is still more mesmerizing.  Yes, the landscape does not extend forever into the distance, and yes, the polygons making up the characters are obvious, but the lines created are more pleasing than any Zelda since, and the colors blend and contrast perfectly.  From Mount Doom to lake Hylia, the imaginary world and its inhabitants draw you in, and within a few deceptively short hours, you cannot look away. "Graphics," as thought of today, with rocks crumbling and wood splintering when bullets strike, do not exist.  But they don't need to.  Even the most obbsessed lover of graphics will forget their obsession as they get lost in this games beautiful, open world.  If you love the huge open maps of Fable 2, or the sprawling cities of Assassin's Creed, you will love this.
2) Controls.  Games these days usually let you customize your button layout. This is not nescesarry with Ocarina of Time.  The N64 controller fits any hand perfectly, and the buttons you want are always right where you want them to be.  It is very easy to learn and (except for its sibling Majora's Mask), easier to use than any other game. No crazy button combos to memorize.  No wiggling of the joystick to perform random tasks.  Just simple, logical, purposeful, buttons.  Perhaps in the future it will change, but even after Skyward Sword, I, and many other people still prefer the buttons to the Wii mote. If you like playing Super Smash Brothers Brawl with a gamecube controller rather than the nunchuck, you will definetly prefer this. And unlike Mario64, the cammera follows you perfectly.
3) Puzzles.  This is not a sword hacking game, though there is enough to satisfy the first person shooters.  There are many very simple puzzles, and many frustratingly hard puzzles, but none so hard that you rip out the cartridge and throw it against the wall. And if you ever get stumped, there are plenty of side quests and mini games to help you upgrade your equipment or simply vent. The game takes time to figure out, even if that means just getting your bearings in a huge maze, but there is a simple satisfaction to moving on, especially when you restart and pass effortlessly through the dungeons you've already decrypted straight to the boss. If you liked Myst, you will love this game.
4)Story.  Most importantly story.  The first time I read the Narnia series, I was almost bored by its simplicity until the Last Battle, at which time I finally started to recognize the symbolism and see the depth between the lines.  The Ocarina of Time is likewise a simple story, but there is so much depth in the admittedly simple dialogue.  From the opening flames, to the closing courtyard, the game draws you in.  You become a part of Zelda's world.  You come to trust, love, despise, or hate almost every character in the game.  Even the chickens and dogs.  There is a great romance between Zelda and Link, hiding just beneath the surface.  Anything else? You want it, this game has it. Tension. Passion. Action. Adventure. Mystery. Comedy. Heroism. Deceit. Sacrifice.  Even ghosts, mummies, and various undead for all you horror fans.  By the time you finish the game, you have made real connections, for better or worse, with every character in the game.  And (spoiler alert) when Zelda turns and see's young Link walking up behind her in her garden, it is so maddeningly bittersweet you don't know whether to smile or break down and cry.  There is a certain Pale Rider feel, as you see everyone you've helped rejoicing at their freedom from the evil King Gannondorf, and yet knowing that your's is not the happily ever after you spent 7 years fighting for.  It is emotionally beautiful.  The perfect echo to the human heart.
I cannot stress how highly I reccomend this game.  It is 2012, and it is still listed as the greatest game of all time on every major site.  On Amazon, a new copy is currently selling for $700. It is far and away the best game ever made.  It is the best reason there is to still buy an N64.  If you still do not have this game, buy one now.  Even if you are part of the 0.01% who decides against it, you will easily make all your money back at resale.  But honestly, you will never sell it.  It will grow old on your shelf with honor and dignity as long as the silicone inside it lasts. And maybe even a bit thereafter.