Zelda OCT is an action-adventure RPG (there is debate about this, and some argue Zelda is it's own genre) with a combination of puzzles, fighting, and racing. Anyone who enjoys this genre will be enthralled by OCT (which you can play on several Nintendo platforms including the 64 and Gamecube). I still play Zelda OCT 10+ years later on the Gamecube from time to time, it's that good of a game.

Graphics:
For the time period, Zelda OCT on the 64 was beautiful and it has stood the test of time FAR better than other older games on consoles. It was the first truly 3D game for a console and set the standard for what video games should look like. If you grew up on newer systems and PC's, these graphics will look "blocky" to you, but the Gamecube has an OCT version with more refined graphics. Still, if you want a "retro" video game experience, the N64 Zelda OCT has graphics that are still enjoyable today.

Story:
The Zelda story is perfect for a video game, as the basic premise is always the same. Link, a young boy (or young man in newer games), is the reincarnated hero of time. He must battle the evil Ganon/Ganondorf to save Hyrule and princess Zelda by using the power of the Triforce.

Zelda OCT molds the "Zelda Story" into a fantastic tale that will take a least a few months to beat for your first time. The game's puzzles become progressively more difficult, culminating in the notoriously challenging dungeon - the Water Temple. The story combines several races (Hylians, Kokiri, Gerudo, Gorons, and Zora) seamlessly into one large kingdom. The enemies are varied and interesting as well. The Fantasy-Adventure story line is complex and intricate, complete with twists and shocks, time-travel, and genocide. Time affects the characters, and you see that not everyone loses when evil prevails. The story details are amazingly deep, to the point that pictures on someone's wall and the clothes they wear can fill in some back story of that character. I loved the detail and enjoyed filling in little pieces of the "back story" by talking to the NPCs and looking through the first person scope at their tattoos and clothes. The main story is also amazing, with the typical epic sword-clashing adventure ingeniously employed in the Zelda OCT universe. It's truly a master's greatest work.

Game Play:
The 64 had a simple controller for fun game play. There are only a few buttons, A, B, Z, C-pad, R1, L1, joystick, and the D-pad. The D-pad isn't needed in Zelda 64. This limited key selection was used to build an elegant fighting system around a few button combinations. Although B always attacks and A always does "an action", the genius of this system falls in the types of attacks you can do. Depending on the way your character is moving, and whether or not an item is targeted, Link can perform an impressive list of sword attacks (vertical cut, horizontal slash, diagonal slash, spin attack, thrust, and jump attacks). Despite the fact that B, Z, and the joystick are the only buttons that control these moves, Link is easy to control and I never had problems getting Link to perform the combination of moves I desired. Link could cut any sign into 5 unique pieces consistently - that is excellent controller response!

In addition to the perfect synchronization of Link to the game controls (something newer games like Dark Souls could take a lesson on) the game play is interesting and varied. Although the main fighting style will be slashing it up with your sword, each monster has a unique weakness that you can take advantage of with a variety of weapons. Link not only totes a one-handed sword and shield, but he also get's access to a sling shot and deku seeds, boomerang, hook shot, bow and arrows, bombs, deku sticks, deku nuts, and two impressive two-handed weapons: a hammer and a sword. These weapons can all be used in different ways to different effects at various times in the games.

Although the game would have been interesting enough with just those weapons, the game is further varied by magic. Link can wield three types of hand magic, as well as three types of magic arrows. This adds another level of monster fighting, where Link tries to find the weakness so he can move in and dice them up.

Apart from the impressive array of weapons, Link also packs a varied wardrobe. The stoic hero is far from interested in fashion (I mean, he runs around in a tunic and tights with a long cap, so he obviously doesn't care about his looks), so each piece has a specific use. You can mix and match boots and tunics for different benefits. Some bosses can only be beat with the right combination of clothing and shields, and figuring out how to use which items against a difficult boss is part of what makes Zelda OCT a great game.

Wait, there's still more to combat. Apart from the variety of moves and effects Link can muster with his impressive array of items, there is also horseback combat. You can ride around on Epona, a fierce, wild, mare who only listens to you, and shoot things with your bow and arrow. There are also mini games centered around the fun and challenging horseback combat.

Summary:
Zelda OCT is an excellent Action-Adventure RPG with an epic story line that seamlessly melds a complex kingdom and elegant fighting style into a grand video game. The characters are interesting, with even the most minor sentinels having a back story that you can uncover. The main story is fun to progress through, and you care about a lot of the characters you meet. The controls are excellent and perfectly integrated for fun, non-frustrating, game play. The bosses are challenging, requiring wit to uncover their weakness from the surroundings and circumstances before you can move in and damage them with your sword.

Final Note:
If the 64 is too retro for you, Zelda OCT has been remade for the Gamecube with newer graphics. However, the Gamecube controller does not integrate as seamlessly as the 64 (understandably) so you will miss out on a large part of what made Zelda 64 great. Additionally, there is a 3DS version, but I haven't played that so I really can't comment.