This is the one game that I would play day in and day out, for more than a year.  The one game where I discovered something new almost every time I played.  It was the one game which brought me and my friends together religiously at least 3 or 4 times a week.  Somehow it just wouldn't die, no matter how hard we tried.
At first, it just seemed so standard and bland.  Playing muliplayer for the first time, I had problems finding guns and felt confused and bored running through the Temple level.  soon, somehow, something clicked, and me and my friends  ended up playing it for about 4 hours straight.  Towards the end of that introductory marathon Goldeneye session, we took our first stride out of the standard Deathmatch restriction- increasing my character's health to its highest limit and my friends fighting against me.  Thus we coined the "God" mode, and we played this variant to death in the coming months.
It didn't end there.  We had fests where we would do nothing but attack each other with punches.  We bought a bunch of video cable and conected three televisions together to form a sort of splitscreen, LAN-type mode, covering up other player's screens so we wouldn't know where the other players were.  We playedthe Team mode constantly, refining our knowledge of the levels and our marksmanship.  Fed up with auto-aiming, we turned it off and further honed our skills.  I began to be able to play the Complex level in my sleep.  Proximity mines soon became an addiction.  We pushed the game to its limits, learning that we could move the ammo boxes, shields, and guns around by shooting them, thus reworking their positions and creating large stockpiles in team games.  We began to use Gameshark to unlock multiplayer maps that weren't intended for the final version, as well as increasing the limits on two and three player maps to four players.  We discovered a code that turned one player invisible, and proceeded to do hunter-hunted scenarios over splitscreen.
Basically, it was the first game to really show limitless possibilities.  It was a revolution for first-person shooters, and so many have overlooked this fact.  It was the first to have targeting of individual body parts, over 20 weapons to choose from, realistic glass, shooting out of lights, and bullet holes, and for its time fairly revolutionary AI.  All in all, it was an experience that defined video games for me, and few if any have matched it with a similar addictive experience.