This is, to me, not only the greatest Zelda game in the series, but also the greatest game I've ever play.

Where to begin? There is so much in this game that makes it so fun. I absolutely love the side quests. Getting the Biggoron Sword is a race against time, but very rewarding considering you will posess an awesome huge sword that is twice as powerful as the Master Sword!

Another side quest I loved was completing the Gerudo Training Fortress to get the Ice arrows. This will force you to use all your skills and items, and will really put you to the test. I would even venture to say that the Gerudo training temple is more difficult than almost every other dungeon.

The ghost hunting side quest is very tough and takes practice and patience. Capture all 10 big poes roaming the field of hyrule and sell them to the strange ghost shop. You will get the 4th bottle (the hardest to get)

Even the mask salesman side quest is very interesting and unique. While many wouldn't bother to complete it, but the reward is the very cool and mysterious "Mask of Truth". Furthermore, this side quest is slightly more significant considering that the masks are the focal point in the follow up "Majoras' Mask".

But of course, my favorite side quest is the Skulltula side quest. It is very long and trying, but definitely worth it. This is another side quest many people wouldn't bother to complete, but completing it does have it's merits. For example: there is a very profitable rewards system in play. Destroy 10 Golden Skulltulas, and you get the adult wallet (holds 200 rupees). At 20, you get the stone of agony, which (when playing with a rumble pack inserted) will alert the player when a secret is nearby. At 30, get the Giant's Wallet and you can carry 500 rupees. At 40 you get Bombchus (I know, lame). At 50, get a piece of heart. After that, you get nothing more unless you manage to destroy all 100 golden skultullas. Doing this will result in you being able to get 200 rupees every time you visit the house of skultulla. Unlimited money is very cool, although a bit useless at that late a stage in the game.

The bosses are great. I won't go into great detail, but I've always loved the fight with Volvagia the lava dragon. There is something so classic and satisfying about watching Link defeat a lava dragon in a volcano with the master sword and hylian shield. Also, the final battle with Gannondorf is a real treat, and I never get tired of firing the magic arrows of light at him. The fight has a very epic quality to it, and the final battle against the horribly mutated Gannon has a nightmarish ambience to it.

The temples all have thier own awesome themes, both musically and environmentally. I always thought that the Forest Temple was incredibly imaginative and just stunning. It has the feel of something abandoned to the wild with overgrown vines overtaking the temple, and the open courtyard.

The music is top-notch even by today's standards. Koji Kondo really put together a masterpiece.

There is even a sweet element of sadness in Link's lost childhood, with the loss of his friendship to Saria. The moments where Shiek teaches you a song to warp to a temple always has a reference to a long lost friendship or the somewhat cruel passage of time.

The ability to customize adult Link's appearance is pretty unique and cool where you can choose with color tunic he wears, which sword and shield to wield.

In short, this is a wonderful game that will always have a special place in my heart.