Turok 2 when I was younger as a kid was amazing, no parents told me I was not aloud to play it because they never actually played it themselves to know. The graphical content and gore was stunning to my 5 year old eyes. The first level took me forever to beat and I only beat it once. Plus I didn't have a controller pak. Then came the day I bought it again for my n64, nothing looks more sexy than Turok 2 in a green nintendo 64. The first time I ever beat it and it took as long as it did to beat a metroid game and there are only 6 levels. Weapons in old games to begin with were always amazing. I was always able to hold as many as they would let me. Such as doom, Turok, South park, Armorines, perfect dark, etc. Then new games came along and ruined everything that is great about Fps. Sure they have better graphics and frame rate. But they are all the same to be honest. Emulators sucks ass I don't care if its rgb or not. But just old games from dos to the beginning game cube fps's are all I got. But something about the way a n64 looks and the way the graphics look on it just make me love it so much. To me it's the best looking system and has the best looking games. Turok tops it all! Way ahead of its time it set the standard of what the n64 was capable of. Turok 2 is on pc and n64. The n64 game had stencil bits and made the game take a hit in frame rate. Stencil bit shadows were a new thing in 98 so iguana tried it out. In my honest opinion I wouldn't have even cared if the shadows were just the classic circle or just no shadows at all. Still it is stunning the n64 could handle what was thrown at it. The AI in the game was the most fascinating thing I have ever seen in a game and still is. They are smart and fight one another (really fun to watch) I found the game to run best in Hi-res-LB and looks the best as well. The weapons are still the coolest weapons in any game on the face of this planet and all of them are uniquely different. My favorite weapons are the Tek Bow, Shotgun, War-blade, Razor-wind, Cerebral bore, Plasma Rifle, Mag-60, Grenade launcher, the kick ass Charge Rifle (ONE OF THE BEST LOOKING WEAPONS), Firestorm Cannon (like a mini-gun but different and bad ass sounding), Nuke, Flamethrower (The first fire to actually show 3D even in almost all games on n64), and the torpedo Launcher (because you can go through water faster). Music has always been one of my favorite things when it comes to games because the music sets the mood and Turok 2 has the best music in any n64 game I have ever heard, sorry Perfect Dark your music and K7-Avenger are great to but Turok is to bad ass. Iguana seemed to like it so much and acclaim that, that the music is in all Turok games as well as Vexx and Armorines and more have some similar sound. The multiplayer in Turok 2 to me is absolutely stunning (I run that in low-res) and is just as good as Goldeneye, Perfect Dark, The world is not enough, and Turok Rage wars. Quite a few games ran on the Turok engine as well. Armorines (a amazing game! Uniquely different yet just as awesome), and South Park (not many liked this game but to me it's like a mixture of Doom+Turok=South park!... The multiplayer is good to just don't go above 2 players.) So you see Turok 2 was used in many things and is an amazing game. Once you play it you will wish iguana and acclaim still existed. They were the company that developed and distributed games with their say so. Making their games unique. Most hated their games but they never looked at the work they did. Extreme G2 for example had so much done to it that it to suffered frame rate and certain levels were unplayable in single player Grand Prix but in time trials they all ran smooth and helped with remembering everything. Extreme g2 to me is the best out of the series. I have almost every game by Acclaim and love every game (except turok 3, its a good run the first time but compared to dinosaur hunter and seeds of evil it is crap). So Turok 2 is amazing! if you want to try it get it now! on n64 or even on PC! You will love the game and see all the death animations and creative designs and levels! Turok is the greatest fps try them all! (your own risk for 3 but a good to the collection) Dinosaur Hunter 1 amazing smooth game great n64 game, the first fps on n64. Seeds Of Evil 2 Worthy sequel and is amazing in graphics and game play. Shadow Of Oblivion a okay game for the first run but great for the collection. Rage Wars the true sequel or attachment to Turok 2 and has great multiplayer and just as bad ass guns. Evolution fantastic remake of the first Turok starring Tal'set and has amazing weapons and is the biggest game of them all featuring over 14 chapters and has awesome multiplayer. Turok PC,360,ps3 I played it on 360, Runs on the Unreal Engine (which is bad ass) a great game with good weapons (Why I liked it is because I was quick and accurate, I run faster than slow ass call of duty and has worthy death animations like Turok 2 but not as good and not as good music, awesome multiplayer [if anyone is on] and a good campaign). These are the Turok games! Which started out as comics and became life and were playable. Get Turok 2 you will enjoy it! And bring a few friends over! It is A True Turok Game and is worth being played even in todays cliche fps trigger happy CoD fans.