After playing "Turok: The Dinosaur Hunter" for ten minutes, I realized I had a great game at hand. It was like Mortal Kombat, except in a shooting-game. Blood everywhere, amazing enemies and weapons, and a good, good time. And I'll admit this; I don't actully play the Turok games. No, I'm sorry, I don't. It's not that their hard, or boring, but I don't play them...well, not without the cheats at least. As soon as I find out a new Turok game's coming, I get on the internet, go to Happypuppy.com, and find the Master Cheat. Yeah, it's pretty low, but it's fun to go in these blood-soaked shooter games. And the second one is no exception. I played this game without cheats for a few hours, made up my mind, and decided it was great, and would be even better with cheats.
Half an hour later, I came back with the Master cheat in my hand, which is "BEWAREOBLIVIONISATHAND", or, if you break it down, "BEWARE OBLIVION IS AT HAND". Within minutes, I had an amazing arsenal, all maps, invincibility, and more by my side. The weapons...well, let's just say the first Turok can't touch them. You have the usual knife and bow and arrow, pistol, shotgun, and the rest, but you now also have a nuke, pod layer (which lays bombs on the ground and they explode on contact), a machine gun (as the first had, but this one's much better), the Cerebrial Bore (the most gory weapon of all. It launches out a little ball, and it goes straight for the enemies head. When it gets there, it starts sucking and draining blood form their head, then, after 5 second, it explodes, and takes the enemies head with it), my personal favorite, the Razor Wind (a shield with sharp edges on it. You throw it and it cuts up all enemies in it's path, then come right back to you. It can chop off just about any limb you throw it at; the head, the legs, and the arms), and another physical weapon, the War Blade. The name says it all.
Overall, this game is a vast improvement, and is the best yet (but that might change as soon as I play "Evolution"). The graphics are great, awesome story, vast, detailed enviroments, and some hot blue chick that always pops up. What more could you ask for?