Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time is a classic.  It should be played by every Nintendo fan and fans who are not big on Nintendo.  The Zelda series is infact a big popular series but this one defys all of them.  Ocarina of Time is a stand alone Zelda classic.  It is not only the best Zelda game but it is possibly the greatest game ever created on a console.  The story line is oh so brilliant and the graphics(even for todays standard) are unbelievable.  Anyone who owns a Nintendo 64 needs this game.  This game is pretty old and pretty cheap(I lost my game so I baught one for 5 bucks at Gamestop)so it won't be hard to find.  This game infact shows what the Nintendo 64 is capable of.  The game is very well made as you play through a huge world...well not that huge..  And I will say this..(I may be exagerating this though) But the Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time has one of the best "boss battle finale" ending ever..Ubelievable..Graphics in this game a superb.  There were parts in the game were I would just stand there and stare at the ocean, houses anything cause it looked so beautiful.  I loved how they created the bosses especially the last one and it was amazing how realistic they made the horse look.  Nintendo scores big with the graphics.  The gameplay is magneficent.  I loved how it was all made and done.  I really can't get into this one, you'll just have to play this part for yourself....The sound is..My god...It's beautiful I even downloaded all the songs.  I loved the song were your in the temple and you get the Mastersword cause they made that song really well.  The music in the farm were Epona is was made extreamly well and was just BRILLIANT!  As I've stated the story in this game is just plain good, though it obviously has the "save" themed plot as you all know and I won't really get into the plot since there is already like 500 reviews saying what the plot is about..Sure the game is old and outdated, I guess..But so what..The game is still one of the greatest games of all time.  I'll put it in simple words for you, the game is flawless!  The game has an amazing plot that will suck you in, the gameplay is fun and classic(as well as riding Epona the horse)and music is just plain beautiful, the enviroments and atmosphere of the game as just as incredible as the game itself is and as I stated before...Ocarina of Time is simply the greatest video game ever made(and if it's not possible then it has hands down the best video game ever made, no the best video game OF ALL TIME)....Get this game you will not regret it!

5 out of 5!!!!(if I could I would give it 100000 out of 5)