Back in the late 1990s I wrote two articles for a now defunct game website about "Ocarina of Time". One is a review of the title, and the other is the how in many ways Ocarina of Time feels like a remake of the eternal SNES classic (and my personal favorite Zelda game), THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: A LINK TO THE PAST. Rather than leave them unposted, I issued them on Amazon back in 2007, one article on the "Collector's Edition" ("Zelda 64 a Remake?" and and one on the "Regular" edition (an actual review of the game). When the 3DS version came out, I wrote a review of that and included both articles on the review as well for bonus content. Originally this review only featured one of the two articles - I am now putting both articles up.

Mike London, 9-9-2012

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This commentary on "Ocarina of Time" was written as a gaming article for a retro-gaming site back in May of 1999.  I was going to post it on Amazon but for some reason never got around to it.  Mike London, November 3, 2007

Article 1: Does "Zelda 64" really live up to all the hype?

[Blurb: With all the hype, its hard to be objective about OoT.  Is it the best game in the series, or does it have to settle for second (or, egad, third?) best?  Is it like Star Wars Episode I, all special effects and no substance?  Find out a few thoughts from a fellow gamer!]

The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is easily one of the most hyped games of recent gaming history.  In fact, I think I could safely say it IS the most hyped game yet.  There is only one thing that can compare to it in terms of hype, and this product is in an entirely different industry.  Star Wars: Episode I had the same amount of coverage.  Being a big fan of both, of course I've beat the game and have seen the movie.  And they have one thing in common.  They're both eye candy.  But how do they hold up to the rest of the series?  In my opinion, The Empire Strikes Back is by far the best Star Wars movie.  But what about OoT you ask?  How can I defame such an instant classic?

One reason mainly.  In the original and in The Legend of Zelda: Link to the Past, (I can't speak for Zelda II because I haven't beat it yet) the ending was spectacular.  Not the game ending, for The Legend of Zelda was produced in the Stone Age and there was much ending wise, but the last dungeon.  Ah, the last dungeon.  Only recently (like December 23, 1999) have I beat the first quest of The Legend of Zelda.  That last dungeon on Death Mountain was a killer, a true challenge that you had to match your mettle with to get past it, save Princess Zelda and beat that nasty ol' Gannon.  It was truly a great dungeon.  Now skip on past those five years between the release of the original and the SNES version.  What have we here?  A dungeon comparable to that in the original Legend of Zelda!  Everything is bigger and better in the SNES version, including the last dungeon.  Whew, and I thought the original was harder, but no way!

Then, in 1993, we see the release of the Game Boy version of Zelda.  The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening was released to a very receptive crowd.  But guess what!  No end dungeon!  In terms of dungeons, this is the smallest of the Zelda titles (again, not including Zelda II).  You beat eight dungeons, and then you go and beat the Wind Fish.  Personally, I'm half a dungeon away from completing this Zelda game (Dungeon Seven, which I completed half of, went and beat eight, and now I'm back on the last half of VII).  That last dungeon was challenging, granted, but what about that classic end dungeon?  No where to be found here.  Granted, it's a Game Boy game, and it is huge for that consol.  So that offence is not to serious.  And we did get a new dungeon, though not the ending I was hoping for, with the Colour Dungeon on DX, which was the rerelease of the classic game for Game Boy Colour.

After five long years, The Legend of Zelda: Orcarina of Time was released for the N64.  So cool!  Link in a 3D adventure.  About time too.  Mario, the cash cow counterpart to Link, got his 3D adventure way back in `96.  Of course, I bought the game.  And of course, I beat it.  It is an excellent game.  Truly it is one of the great classics.  But one flaw keeps it from edging out The Legend of Zelda: Link to the Past.  The end dungeon absolutely sucked.  That is my only disappointment with that game.  As I was nigh the close of the Shadow Temple, I was really looking forward to getting into Gannon's tower.  I was expecting a great closer dungeon, just like in Link to the Past.

[Spoiler: If you haven't beat the 64 version of Zelda, don't read this]

What did we get?  Instead of a great closer dungeon, we got a door way that was blocked by barriers.  What did we have to do?  Go thru six rooms and beat whatever was in them, then go and shoot the barrier corresponding with each temple to open the pathway.  And what did I get?  A great disappointment.  Sure, this might have been a good way to end a novel or something, but to end a Zelda game like that was horrible.  The Game Boy was forgivable and acceptable, but this ending to Zelda 64 was truly despicable.  That has been my biggest disappointment with the Zelda series.

[Spoiler Finished]

Others say The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is the best Zelda game.  I have to disagree.  Don't get me wrong.  It is easily one of my favorite games of the N64.  It's a great game, very innovative (espically that nifty Z Targeting feature) and an epic in its own right.  But for what the system is capable of, The Legend of Zelda: Link to the Past beats it out of the coveted title of Best Zelda Game.  LTTP is huge.  It fully utilized the SNES technology.  It had a full twelve dungeons, two of which the sole purpose was to beat the bad guy, and not try to retrieve any medallions or crystals or pendents or pieces of triforce or what ever.  That's one more than the original has.  (LoZ has one closer dungeon for each quest.)  After you beat the bad guy twice, you go and fight Ganon.  There were plenty of side quests for an SNES Zelda also.  Overall, for the system's capabilites, LTTP is my favorite.

But what about The Legend of Zelda: OoT?  My two chief complaints are these:
  1.  Weak closer dungeon (as I spent a good time detailing up above).
  2.  Not enough bad guys to kill in the Overworld.

All other Zelda games, including the black sheep of the family (Zelda II), has plenty of bad guys to kill in the Overworld.  But what have we in OoT?  A few measly skeleton dudes at night, and some giant flying plants that you can hardly get too in Hyrule Field.  Give me the old Zelda with bad guys streaming at you in every new screen.  For all the time they put into it, you don't think it would be to hard to correct this problem.

Then we come to another mistake Nintendo made in the N64 version of Zelda.  Granted, LoZ had two main tracks, one being the Overworld theme and then the dungeon theme.  They could have had more variety, but it was back in the Stone Age.  That Overworld Theme became pretty much the theme of the entire series.  And guess what they decided to omit music wise from OoT?  The Overworld them from the original LoZ!  I couldn't believe they did that!  Hopefully we'll see it in Zelda Gaiden.  Maybe the Triforce will show up in that game too.  Just a thought.

Now, after railing on OoT for a great majority of this article, you may think I hate the game.  Quite the opposite, really.  It's a great game, and worthy to be in the Zelda Series.  (Gee, it sounds like I'm defending Zelda II, which I've already done in a separate article).  But it has been the single most hyped up game in the history of Nintendo, and it is totally out of balance.  Great 3D game, but would have been better had it corrected the problems I stated above.  It's a fun game, and I had a great time beating it.  It provides a lot of enjoyment.  But, just like Star Wars: Episode I, it just can't live up to all that hype?  I wonder if any game (or movie) could actually.

[May 9, 1999.  An article originally written for NintendoLand.com.  I've written four released articles and one unreleased article (dealing with SMB 2).  It will have to be edited.  Also, perhaps incorporating part of the structural symmetry article.]
.
.
.
.
.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Article 2:
[Originally this was written for a retro-gaming site back in early January, 2000. It has never appeared on Amazon.]

Zelda 64 a Remake?

[Blurb: Zelda 64 and SNES Zelda has several similarities, almost to the point that the basic game design of Zelda 64 is a remake. Read here for more information on this intriguing phenomena! Just a few thoughts from a fellow gamer!]

After playing the course of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, I've noticed something very intriguing about it. It seems to be a rehash of what I feel is the best Zelda game: LoZ: Link to the Past. Why do I say this? I say this because there are several structural symmetries that lie between Zelda 64 and LTTP.

Lets examine it. For one, there are three pendants you have to acquire in LTTP. This is after you go and rescue Zelda and leave her at the temple. Well, this time around, you don't rescue Zelda, but you do go and talk to her. After that, when you get the three pendants, you go and she is kidnaped. This is after you get the Master Sword in the Lost Woods. In Zelda 64, you go thru the first part of the quest, getting three spiritual stones. After you get those three spiritual stones (which I think the tower on LTTP is much better than that d----- Lord Jabu Jabu's belly. I hated that dungeon! =)), you go to the town. Guess what, as Link approaches, there it cuts to a cinema, and Zelda is kidnaped by Ganondorf. Hmm . . . haven't we seen this story before? It turns out that you have to get 5 of the Sage's medallions. Rauru conveniently gives you one, so we can cut the sixth one away. Only by getting the six sage medallions can you open the bridge to fight Ganondorf. How intriguing.

In the superiour SNES Zelda counterpart, it is seven crystals, and you don't get one given to you. Link wakes no sages this time. Instead, the seven maidens of the wise men descent have been hidden in deep dank dungeons, and Link has to transverse thru 13 dungeons all together, 5 the first part, and eight the second part. They are challenging, fun, and intriguing. Granted, Zelda 64 has some great stuff. But it is not as consistent as LTTP. After you have gone thru the seven dungeons (two more than in Zelda 64), you now have all seven crystals. That's great! Now, go to Death Mountain, and by doing so you will open the way to Ganon's big bad temple.

Okay, what do we have in Zelda 64? You go and get the five medallions, plus the one that Rauru gives you as Link. Guess what? Now you have to go to his tower, and open the rainbow bridge with the six medallions.* Hmm . . . isn't that what we did in SNES Zelda? Why, I do believe it is, Watson!

Another issue yet addressed is the Light World/Dark World. Zelda 64 does the same thing, save this time it is time traveling (I'm not even going to go into the impossibilities of time travel on this . . . that's a whole separate article in itself). In SNES Zelda, you have a little mirror the old man gave you. There are eight transporters located thruout Hyrule, transporting back and forth. If you are in the Dark World, you can use the mirror to go into the Light World, making a temporary transporter. Well, in Zelda 64, there is no mirror or transporters (the closest to a mirror is the Lens of Truth, found nigh in the Shadow Temple). But if you go and put the sword back, then you go back to being young. That creates two versions of the same world to explore. That structural symmetry corresponds to LTTP. Not only that, but at the end if the first three stones, Link goes to the Temple of Time and gets the sword. This is after the three Spiritual Stones goes into place. Hmm . . . isn't that what happened in LTTP? After getting the three pendents, Link goes to the Lost Woods and retrieves the Master Sword. But he cannot do that until he has all three pendents. Well, that's the same in Zelda 64. He can't get the Ocarina of Time, now can he retrieve the sword, until he wins the corresponding three spiritual stones. I swear I've played this game before . . . . ; )

The real question is why did Nintendo do this? Well, Miyamoto is a great gamming god, but as far as stories go, his team is not that good at having connecting story lines that make sense. Again, another article, another time. The structural symmetries lying between Zelda 64 and LTTP is quite frightening. Who knows why they chose to do that? Granted, the story line is different, but quite a few of the fundamentals behind both pieces are indeed the same. In review:

A Listing of Structural Symmetries between SNES Zelda and Zelda 64

1. SNES: First Part, Link goes and retrieves three pendants after rescuing Zelda. This is to get the Master Sword. Upon doing so, and after giving the Pendants up to retrieve the Sword, Zelda is kidnaped.

2. N64: Link, after receiving a mission from the Deku Tree, goes and wins the three Spiritual Stones. Upon doing so, he goes to Hyrule City, but not before learning Zelda is kidnaped. He places the three Spiritual Stones in their place, and the Door of Time is opened, and there the sword is. Retrieving the Sword, goes to the Temple of Sages, or whatever it is called. Is given first Sage Medallion.

3. SNES: After winning the three pendents, Link must now go between two versions of the world (Light World/Dark World). Link must go back and forth between the two worlds to beat the game.

4. N64: In this great stunning adventure, Link must go between two versions of his world. One is when he is young, the other when he is an adult. This is achieved by putting the sword back in its pedestal. Just like in SNES LTTP, Link have to go back and forth to finish the game.
When he is an adult, things are noticeable more evil, for Ganon's power has grown.

5. SNES: One version (Light World) is good because not corrupted by Ganon. Version II (Dark World), is an evil corrupted version of the Light World.

6. N64: One version (Young Link's world) is not corrupted by Ganon's evil. Ganon has just recently showed up. Version II (Adult Link's world), is an evil corrupted version (albeit older) of Young Link's world. The only difference is in one its two different versions of the same thing, in Zelda 64 it's the time barrier. But for game play, they're the same.

7. SNES: He, Link, must recover seven crystals hidden in seven dungeons (sounds logical). With the maidens' power, they will open to door to Ganon's castle.

8. N64: Link has to recover five medallions to open Ganon's Tower.

9. SNES: The (massive) closer dungeon is a tower.

10. N64: The (weak) closer dungeon is a tower.

11. SNES: After beating Ganon, you save Zelda, who had been kidnaped. Although one could argue you save her in Turtle Rock, she is still imprisoned in the Crystal with the other maidens, each in their respective Crystals.

12. N64: Sticking to the standard Nintendo story, after recovering the medallions and beating Ganon, guess what, Link saves Zelda. There's a shocker.

13. SNES: There are various mini-games, heart pieces, and extra things to do. This trend is continued in Link's Awakening also.

14. Zelda 64: Stuck with the trend of mini-games, four heart pieces to make a heart, and extra things to do.

15. SNES: In some of the houses, you can find a picture of Mario on the wall.

16. N64: In Zelda 64, after meeting Zelda, look out the window, and you can find some pictures of Mario, Luigi, Bowser, and the Princess. Yoshi also comes up. Malon and Talon wear Bowser amulets also. Just goes to show, Nintendo likes cameos.

As you can see for yourself, the various structural symmetries between Zelda 64 and SNES Zelda is quit a few. If Miyamoto wanted to do a remake of LTTP for N64 that's what he should have done, I suppose. This, as far as story goes, is pretty much an update with little changed. Its like they took the game's basic plot, changed the circumstances and added where appropriate, but allowing the basic structure to stand. And, although both are great games, sadly, SNES is better, consistently with each dungeon getting a little harder and more complex. But I love Ocarina of Time all the same. This just helps support my believe that Nintendo is first and foremost a gaming company, not a writing company.

*In all previous Zelda games, the end dungeon was in the mountains. This is the first game in the series to break that trend. The first three (Zelda I, II, and LTTP) their dungeon was in Death Mountain. Link's Awakening, Link's only Game Boy adventure (currently) is in Tal Tal Mountains. At least we have something that broke one of the several trends running thru this classic series.