Since Amazon is sort of combining Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask into one review, I will write a review for both games. Both games have been remade for the GameCube, and I own both the original N64 version and the GameCube version. The gameCube versions were released if you bought a GameCube at a certain time and if you pre-ordered the Wind Waker.

THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: OCARINA OF TIME
This game started out as you as the "Hero of Time". You were the only forest child without a fairy, and the Great Deku Tree sent the annoying little fairy to you. When you go to the Deku Tree, he says you must get these Spiritual Stones to open the Door of Time, and a bunch of other crap like that.

Sound and Music: 9.5/10.0 This game has one of the best scores in the video game world, and the ocarina songs are very good. 100% credit to the music makers of all the Zelda Games, these are some great songs. The only problem is you can't shut it off. Sometimes it gets annoying, and it doesn't help if you are stuck on a level for hours.

Graphics: 2004: 4.0/10.0 1998: 9.0/10.0 In this day in age the graphics are so good these look like horrible. If this game was released today, everyone would laugh. Back in 1998, these graphics were the best out there. But the good thing about them is you can see the faces unlike some of those games fromt hat time it made you go blind.

Difficulty: 10.0/10.0 This game is HARD! I beat it barely without a strategy guide, and you can be stuck on levels like the Forest Temple and the freaking Water Temple for MONTHS. If you beat the game with a strategy guide, you take the challenge and fun out of it. You also won't have many broken items, like controllers or TV's.

Gameplay: 1,000,000.0/ 10.0 It is considered the best game ever, and was the 1998 Game Of The Year. You could do EVERYTHING in this game, and it is very fun doing all those side quests and other crap. This game is like no other. No other game can match this, none of that Final Fantasy or any other RPG match it, it is the best Nintendo game ever made.

THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: MAJORA'S MASK
The game takes a huge turn in Majoras Mask as young Link goes out with Epona from Hyrule. No Ganondorf's in this game, because it revolves around Majora's Mask, a mask stolen by this little imp from the Happy Mask Shop guy from OOT. You have three days to get the mask back, but you must keep going back using the Ocarina and the Song of Time.

Sound and Music: 9.5/ 10.0 It is like a carbon copy of Ocarina of Time, and the suspensful music is very catchy. The game has great music, ALL ZELDA GAMES HAVE GREAT MUSIC.

Graphics: Same As Ocarina of Time

Difficulty: 9.5/10.0 Not as bad as Ocarina of Time, but that doesn't mean it is not frustrating and challenging. You can't be scared away by the challenge of these games because they are just too great.

Gameplay: 10.0/10.0 The whole mask collecting concept is very fun and it a change from beating Ganondorf like in all the other games. You will feel deja vu of Ocarina of Time because the characters are the same, just different. The game is fun and a great challenge. Overall, these games are classical N64 greats!