After checking GameSpot's (author's note: this was originally posted exclusively on GameSpot.com) and a few user reviews, I absolutely had to throw my two cents in. I couldn't help but laugh when I read the introduction of "Even with all its bells and whistles, Mario Kart 64 is very likely to disappoint you after about a week."

When I picked up this game initially, my thoughts were "SWEET! A new Super Mario Kart!" I, unfortunately, never had an SNES of my own, so my fixes came in the form of time at my friend's house.

This game is absolutely spectacular in every way. Yes, I do feel that it could benefit from maybe a higher difficulty level and there is also the fact that it's possible to clinch a Gold medal in a circuit (4 races) after finishing in the top spot in each of the first three races. However, other than these minor spots, I find it to be flawless. Everything from the graphics to the sound to the features are great. There is also a great amount of multiplayer available in this, with not only the up to four player split-screen, but the track ghosts as well. Track ghosts are saved data of your best race (single player only) on a course. The game saves not only your time but your entire race. When you race against your ghost, you can actually compare yourself second-by-second on the tracks and this also helps you to analyze spots and what you did to help you become a better racer.

The items are what really make multiplayer fun, though. I've had many a time where I have something such as a ghost (which lets you steal and item and makes you invisible/invincible) while my friend had a lightning bolt (shrinks all opponents) and it's a quick reaction race to see who can get their item deployed first. To me, however, there is nothing more satisfying than hitting your opponent (especially if it's a friend instead of the computer) with a green shell (a shell that fires straight out, as opposed to the red homing shells) as he's about to cross the finish line to win, not just the race, but the circuit as well. And, yes, I actually did that to a friend of mine. Talk about bragging rights.

Up to this point, I have kept (or at least tried to keep) retro-rating out of this review and I was considering dropping one of the five rankings to a 9 because I'm stingy with giving out perfect 10's. If I had rated this game when it first came out, it would probably be rated somewhere around 9.7 to 9.9. However, there is one reason, and one reason only, that I still own my N64 -- and that is to play Mario Kart 64 ... a decade later. (Note: I can't even say that about Zelda: OoT or GoldenEye.) That, in itself, I think warrants the move up to the perfect 10 rating. ... I guess this pretty much means that I'll have to give Super Mario Kart a 10 as well. I guess we'll see when I finally get it on Virtual Console. (For those of you who ask "Virtual Console? Why" Read: paragraph 2.)

Overall: 10
Gameplay: 10
Graphics: 10
Sound: 10
Value: 10
Tilt: 10