Wassup, fellow gamerz!  Nubs.  Lulz.

My parents just bought me "The Legend of Zeldo: Collector's Edition" for my 14th birthday. It features this "Legend of Zeldo: Oracana of Time" game. I enjoyed this game very much...even tho the graphics suck! I will give you some of my thoughts now!

My favorite part was when the main character, Link, pulls the Supreme Sword from the stone in the iceberg temple. Oh man! Glammondwarf (the villain) was so cool! He snuck into the Secret Realm behind Link and stole the Trueforce of Strength!!  Pwned!

The Prince Zeldo person was really weird.  He/she was a tranny who turned into some guy named Shaieke, who kept stalking Link on his journey. Then he/she would change back into an elf girl in a dress. What a creep!  But Zeldo had the Trueforce of Smartness, so I guess that character was okay. Zeldo had this tall white-haired ninja lady named Inca as a bodyguard. Inca might have been a man too though...I'm not sure.  She looked kinda like my aunt Helga.

The Link character was really cool!  Link wears white tights, a green toga, and had a grappling hook device! He also has this little firefly thing called Navely that follows him around! You begin the game playing Link's little kid brother, which kinda sucked.  I can't pwn Goombas with a little midget (Goombas are these big skeleton guys).  I think the kid brother is supposed be Peter Pan, after he killed Captain Hook and left Neverland (maybe they have another game about that part).

But later you get to play Link, who is an adult elf with a pointy nose. He has the Trueforce of Braveness, so that means he is very brave. He can throw dynamites into walls to blow them up and reveal secret buried treasures! I wonder if the treasures were hidden by magic pirates?  Later on, Link gets the Bassoon of Time and can play it to make it snow! I think Link is kinda mentally handicapped though because he never talks. He just goes "Ugh! Hiyah! AUGHHHHHH!" and stuff.
I think he might be a cannibal (or vampire) too, because he eats hearts to gain health. There is a really annoying beeping sound that reminds you when it's time to feed.

You pick up these little colored diamond things called rublees that you can use to buy stuff with. But they look really big, so I wonder how Link can carry so many in his pockets? And if you don't pick the rublees up soon enough, they begin flashing and disappear! I guess they're like...big holograms or something, like in Star Wars.  Why are there so many rublees hidden in the grass and under rocks? I really wish I could mow my parents lawn in real life and find money like that.

There are these fish people named Zurros. They have this giant jellyfish named Mr. Jabba Jabba and you have to go into his stomach to retrieve an ugly little talking fish-man! I think it was the Zurro king's pet and he lost it. But you have to carry it all around Mr. Jabba Jabba's stomach, so it's kinda annoying.

Then there are these big rock guys called Gordos that like to roll down mountains! They are my favorites because they live in this mountain called Doom Mountain. It explodes like a volcano and tries to kill you!  Holy ****!

That evil Glammondwarf guy is a member of the Garundo thieves. They are a bunch of ginger women that live on a beach. But they don't have any men in their race, so I don't understand how there are so many Garundos? Maybe some of them are trannies, like Zeldo.  I think Glammondwarf might be one. He kinda sounds like a drag queen when he laughs.

Sooooo all of these people live in this magical land called Hirole with a bunch of weird cartoon characters. I think it's supposed to be kinda like Toon Town from Roger Rabbit. It's such a huge place! It takes forever to ride across it on Link's horse, Ramona! That's right! You get a horse! Link steals it from Mario and Luigi at some ranch. So I guess Link is kinda a thief. Maybe he's really one of those Garundo thieves? He does kinda look like a girl.  But he's not a ginger, so I'm not sure.

Aaaanyway....play this Bassoon of Time game! It is full of so much WIN!  I hope I didn't give too much of it away!  Lulz!!11one  XD

-w00tkid95-