Truly a classic. This game was one of the first I got for the N64, and it is one of my favorites today. As it gives graphics that were hardly ever seen in the early N64 days, it also has gameplay almost unmatched by the games of it's era. The sound is moderate, but sound isn't a very big facter in deciding the rating of the game.
  A followup on the early SNES version that was also a hit, this game was certainly watched before it's release date, as it stormed into the N64 world and took many fans (as you can see from it's very high review in many chances) right away. It was considered as a very high class game then, and now too. Many of the N64 owners today have one in their hands, and many of those have played the game for over 24 hrs.
  This game has wonderful graphics and sound for the era that it was made in. The size of a typical game back then, but with the technical advancements of some of the games today. The graphics are very good, as you can distinguish all characters and objects faster than immediatly. The game also shows no slow down rate no matter how many characters or items are on the screen at the same time.  The sound is entertaining for a while, and it is different for almost all of the 16 courses, showing wonderful compositions with goofy sound added noises at parts.
  The gameplay is also great. You may pick one of 8 characters to race with. On a small go - cart, you must race on one of the 16 courses and try to get in first. There are many modes. You can race with a group of 8 racers in a grand prix mode, where you may race a total of 4 races and accumulate points. A vs. mode race will put you against a friend or 2 (or 3) in a single race. There is also a battle mode, which will put you against 1 to 3 other players where the last one alive wins.
  The items in the game play a big part. Some will boost your speed, while some are used to slow down enemies. Some steal enemies items, and some let you do things such as go invincible or invisible. Most of the however, are used to smash your opponents into the air and slow them down. In battle, it will be used as one of 3 hits to destroy the enemy.
  The characters are the typical mario game characters:  Mario, Luigi, Peach, Toad, Yoshi, Wario, DK, and Bowser. They should all come in handy sometime in the game, and it should be fun to test them all.
  OVerall, this game is great for having fun. I reccommend it to any one. Great for technology too. This game is right for you.