For all those of you that have followed the lineage of Zelda from its early days on the classic 8-bit system, and onward to its SNES days with "A Link to the Past" (great game), and loved every second of it, then you have to buy this game! For those of you that have never played any other Zelda game, what are you waiting for? Now is a great time to start.
Ocarina of Time is amazing. All the elements of classic Zelda are there - dozens of powerful items and weapons, lots of secrets to find, at least 10 new 3D-rendered challenging dungeons, plenty of secrets and side-games, and something that all the other Zelda's never had: a truly great story!
If you enjoyed "A Link to the Past" you will most certainly like this game as well. The story of Ocarina of Time involves going back and forth in time, between a happy peaceful Hyrule, and a dark evil one, much like ALTTP; but don't think this is a rip-off on its predecessor. The complex dungeons, challenging bosses, and deepening story lines will blow you away. The 3D element of the game also adds so much more that was never possible before. Even the music is catchy and well orchestrated. (I actually downloaded the mp3 soundtrack online!)
The gameplay is a little tough to get used to - afterall, you've never played Zelda in 3D before - so you actually have to consider things sneaking up behind you, and flying overhead! But once you get used to the controls and learn to use the "Z-Targeting" feature (using the trigger button will solve just about any control problem you may encounter), the gameplay gets easier.
The only thing that annoyed me was Navi, a little fairy that travels with Link throughout the game. She is always bugging you to give you painfully obvious information. I suppose she is a helpful guide for younger or more inexperienced players, but I found her annoying. But once you come to realize that Navi is an important aspect of the game's control, you will let it slide.
I would recommend this game to anyone who owns an N64 console, and even more so if you enjoyed SNES's "A Link to the Past." I can't wait to play the sequel when it comes out.