This game is truly phenonemonal. From the amazing graphics (for what it is; a N64 game), to the music, to the challenging gameplay, to the engulfing storyline, the "Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time" is a must-play for any age. You start the game off as young Link (or whatever you want to call him), who lives in an enchanted forest where young never grow old. Inside the forest, there is a godly tree, who could be considered to be infinitly wise. The tree senses Link has the power to overthrow a great evil which is arising, and tests him to the dungeon inside of him. Link comes out, sucessful, and the tree tells him the story of the great evil which is arising. From then on, you play young Link, and must overcome many obstacles. As a child, there are 3 dungeons, and the tree's counts as one, so you're making some time, right? WRONG. There's much more to this game then beating dungeons. As a child, you can't acess as many of the things, but after you advance 7 years to the future and attain the Master Sword, many of these things are then open to you. As a child, you got an ocarina, in which you must learn songs on to access special places or do special things. Now, you can do all those things, and more. My personal favorite is Epona's song, in which you place a horse's (Epona) song, and it comes to you, in which you can ride across Hyrule Field to get to places twice as fast. As a child, you have weapons like a stick (whoopey), a sword, a shield, a sling-shot, and Duku Nuts. As an adult, you can handle 2 swords: the Master Sword, and the Giant Sword, which is so big you must handle it with 2 hands, which means no shield. You also have the hook-shot, Megaton Hammer, bow-and-arrows, and magic crystals you can do different things with. I cannot begin to explain how amazing this game is. I'd buy a Nintendo 64 all over again just for this. Now I have a Playstation 2, and I still have my Nintendo 64, but only play two games on it; this, of course, and Super Smash Brothers. Now, do yourself a favor, buy this game, and experience teh magic yourself.