With almost three years in the making, how did The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time stand the test of time itself? As a prequel to the entire Legend of Zelda series, it has caught heavy anticipation. Ocarina is a prequel to the events before A Link to the Past. Link is a child, whose destiny is to save the land of Hyrule from Ganon (Gannondorf here) by traveling through time. You'll meet up with other characters in the adventure and interact will fellow Hylians, Kokiri, Zoras, and other civilations who aid you on your quest to save Hyrule. Ocarina of Time is one of those controversial games that the series has carried all along. In the end, the game is an Action/RPG, and should never be classified in the style of traditional, turn-based RPG's (like Final Fantasy).
New additions to the series are automatic jumping and Z-targeting. The emphasis of the Zelda games has always been puzzle-solving and dungeon arrangement. You also build your attributes, receiving items including the Ocarina, learning songs whose purposes range from teleporting to opening doors to time traveling. Along with mini-games, hidden items and side quests equal, its a worthwhile experience. Graphics-wise, Hyrule never looked better and most effects in Ocarina of Time are outstanding. No need for sharp visuals and smooth framerates, but rather focus on detail and designer talent. The real-time cutscenes and the passing of day and night are impressive. The sound also holds its own on this cartridge format. The themes of Zora's Domain and Gerudo Valley are music to the ears. Zelda fans will remember tunes of Kakariko Village and Zelda's Lullaby. A big plus is that all the sound effects from previous Zelda games have made a comeback.
In the end, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time makes the cut. Even though the gameplay consists mainly of dungeon-dwelling and puzzle-solving, the impressive graphics, quality sound and everything that's been obtained from previous Zelda titles will keep fans and non-fans alike entertained. It's fun.