In this, one of two installments in the Zelda series for the Nintendo 64, you once again take on the persona of young Link (or whatever you choose to name him), as he embarks on a quest to save the land of Hyrule from the dark forces of Ganon.  One of the great conflicts in Nintendo history, second only to that of Mario and Bowser.  You start the quest as a boy and end up as a man.  Along the way, you will fight many monsters, explore dungeons and temples, rescue a horse (great for traveling through the world of Hyrule quickly), engage in numerous side quests and mini-games, learn many different tunes for your Ocarina, pick up a number of weapons and other helpful items, meet some gorgeous fairies, and in short, have a wonderful gaming experience.
As with the other Zelda games, this one is filled with different puzzles of various types, most of which you MUST complete in order to advance in the game.  They are engaging, but not too difficult to figure out, for the most part.  There are a few, though, that I had a tough time with.  Not to fear, though, there is plenty of help out there, both in books and on the internet, to aid you through those difficult spots.  The controls are wonderfully intuitive.  Navigating through Hyrule is much like controlling Mario in Super Mario 64 (and the game does, at times, suffer from awkward camera angles like Mario did), and there are good tutorials in the game itself that teach you the ins and outs of fighting monsters and defending yourself.
The Z-targeting system is excellent, once you get used to it.  You don't really need it for some of the early monsters, but by the time you become an adult, it will be essential.  In addition, you have a little fairy buddy, Navi, who continually travels with you and is always willing to give you helpful advice on what to do next after you complete a given task.  Navi will also help you with advice on the weak spots of the many different monsters you will encounter throughout the game.
As I mentioned before, there are a number of side quests throughout the game.  They're not essential to finish the game, but they are a lot of fun, and some of them will get you prizes that will make the later stages of the game a little easier.  One word of advice - when you reach Lake Hylia, be sure and talk to the two scarecrows!  Later in the game, you will be glad you did.  Also, be wary of purchasing too many items in the various shops and bazaars.  They have many useful items, but they are also VERY expensive, and almost everything in there can be found for free in various nooks and crannies in the game.  Also, be wary of Gorons who want to sell you a Giant Sword.  Don't say I didn't warn you...
Although you do not NEED a Rumble Pak to play the game, your gaming experience will be enhanced if you get one.  The Pak will be set off whenever Link gets near a secret area, which are sprinkled liberally throughout Hyrule.  These secret areas contain goodies that you really don't want to miss out on.
All in all, an excellent game which showcases the abilities of the N64 to great effect.  Games like this are why I will always remain a Nintendo fan.  But, don't take my word for it - pick it up!  You'll be glad you did.