I remember all the hype surrounding The Legend Of Zelda: The Ocarina Of Time like it was just yestarday. The Zelda franchise has always been among the best to grace any video game system, and with the power of the soon-to-be-released Nintendo 64, the series was finally going to reach its next step: the third dimension. This (along with other titles like Super Mario 64 and Mario Kart 64) got both gamers and the press excited about the N64 and the upcoming Zelda game. While the Nintendo 64 never quite managed to live up to all its prerelease hype, The Legend Of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time managed to not only live up to its respected hype, but in many ways surpass it.
What makes TOOT special IMO is the fact that it is the first game (that I've played) where you truly feel like a part of its world. Many games tried hard to accomplish this feat, including previous Zelda titles, but TOOT was the first game to finally get it right. Even the later Majora's Mask never quite managed to create the immersive world TOOT did.
Much of the game's feeling stems from the interactivity of its world. You can spend hours exploring a certain area and still have not seen everything there is to see. For example, many of the game's locations have these hidden holes you can jump into and find hidden goodies (as well as hear some pretty haunting music). Once you obtain the Stone Of Agony, however, you find out that these randomly placed secrets are only the beginning. I won't go into too much detail here since you need to play the game for yourself to really appreciate it. Another thing that makes this game feel more realistic than previous Zeldas is character interaction. Remember how decidedly generic a lot of the NPCs in Zeldas II and III were? In TOOT, each and every NPC is given at least some sort of personality so that you can easilly distinguish him/her from the rest of the game's characters as well as once again feel like you're a part of Hyrule. And of course, the third dimension (the dimension we live life through) helps the game a great deal.
The gameplay is equally great. I especially liked how you can hold three items at a time rather than just one, which is especially helpful in the game's dungeons which often require you to use several different weapons/items. Speaking of which, the dungeons have some of the most clever puzzles and interesting layouts of any game I had ever played. And I really liked how once you completed all the puzzles in a dungeon, you opened a new path from its starting point straight to the final boss, rather than simply having to run through the entire dungeon all over again after death the way you did in previous Zeldas (this was especially annoying in A Link To The Past, where the dungeons were much longer and more challenging than in the original Legend of Zelda). And of course, the game's graphics are among the N64's best (not necessarely because of how detailed/realistic they are, but how carefully crafted and full of life they are), and the soundtrack is among the best ever to grace a video game (even with the Star Fox 64-quality midi samples).
In brief, The Legend Of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time is an excellent game. If you own an N64 and have not already picked this game up, I strongly suggest you do. If you do not even own an N64, than the system's worth picking up just for this one game and its semi-sequal Majora's Mask.