Well lets end the Crash Bandicoot trilogy on PlayStation with Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped. This game was released in 1998 and was once again, developed by Naughty Dog, published by Sony Computer Entertainment and distributed by Universal Interactive Studios. It was originally a PlayStation exclusive but was later re-released as a PS One Classic on the PlayStation Store.
 The games story takes place immediately after the events of the second game in which the ruins of the Cortex Vortex come crashing down to Earth and lands on a temple unleashing an evil entity known as Uka Uka who is Aku Akus evil twin brother; Aku Aku is the mask that helped Crash out in the first two games. Uka Uka joins with Doctor Neo Cortex and Doctor Nefarious Tropy as they plan to gather Crystals in their original places in time and use their energy to enslave the Earth.
 The game is once again a platformer with pretty much the same kind of controls as the second game. You can not only play as Crash but also as his sister Coco who was a supporting character in the second game. You travel back and forward in time to gather the 25 Crystals from the previous game in their original places in time before the enemy does; but don't worry, the levels are completely different from each the second game. The game takes place in the Time-Twisting Machine which acts as the hub area of the game. The machine is split into five chambers with only the first chamber being available at the start. Each chamber has five buttons that open portals to different levels. The goal is the same as the second game; obtain the crystal hidden in the area. Some crystals can be obtained in the middle of the level or by completing a certain task such as winning a race. The gems are also back and can only be obtained by destroying all the boxes, or completing a hidden level or task. Once you obtain the five crystals in a chamber, a sixth button will appear that warps you to a boss who will fight you in order to get the crystals back. By defeating the boss, the next chamber will become available to play. By defeating a boss you unlock a new power, theres the Super Slam which makes your body slam more powerful, the double jump, a tornado twister which lets you glide for a short period, a bazooka launcher which can be used to destroy crates or enemies or collect fruit and one ups and the running shoes which allow you to sprint.
 The newest main feature in the game is the Relics which can only be retrieved in a time trail mode for every level in the game. After you obtain a levels crystal, you can go back to the level and collect the yellow clock at the beginning to start a time trail. The goal is to reach the end as fast as you can, but there are some differences: There are yellow time boxes that when destroyed will stop the clock for a short period of time, there are no checkpoint boxes so if you die, you have to start the level from the beginning; but there are plenty of Aku Aku masks to help you and thats pretty much it. It proves to be very challenging and getting the Platinum relics is insanely difficult and even I never managed to get all of them.
 This game proves to be the best one in the entire series and one of my favorite games overall, period. I would highly recommend getting this game off the PlayStation Store for $6, this is a MUST PLAY. It really is one of the best.
FINAL RATING:  10 out of 10