All right for the guys that hate to read a lot about, real quick if you like 3d platform action adventure titles and maybe you like CB just one thing, GET IT!!!!!!!!!.

OK now to business, I have been in the world of video games since Atari 2600 and colecovision, so after more than 20 years of gaming I KNOW of what I am talking about, if I say its worth is worth it!! but the final word is always yours.

Game-play:+++++
This game has everything you need for hours of high quality of gaming experience, the art concept of the game goes over expectations of the hardware limitation of the PSO, The design of every single element in the game is very creative and unique, the developers invested time on the comedy of the game, which is a tradition on the original trilogy, as usual the controller its a wonder no need to struggle controlling the character and it vibrates as well, the powers, the moves and the style of the main character (CB), its superb, every part of the game becomes fun, not repeatable pattern of enemies or levels, the game itself has a lot of extras for a replay, definitely an outstanding game!!!!!.

Difficulty:!@#$% (Platinum RELICS)
Curse, frustration, but with practice you might become a CB3W master

Plot:+++
Well do not expect a twisted chrono trigger plot!!! as always in crash games the lack of plot its compensated with a beautiful work in the software itself, basically crash goes trough a set of portals using N Cortex (once again his back with an ally) Own technology through time and space, the main thing is of course stop them!!.

Graphics:*****
This is the strongest part of the game no doubt, the game is programmed to utilize MOST of the potential of the PSO GPU, they managed to create excellent crystal effects!!!, water!!!, light sources and shiny surfaces like chrome and ice!!!. one of the few games that deserve to be owned forever unopened!!, one the few great looking games for PSO.

Overall:*****
Perfect over all score!!. once again if you thing you can beat the game with one hand attached at your back and with folded eyes, try getting beyond 100% and all the platinum relics, the real gamer and fans of the series did it!! look for it on you tube, so the difficulty is very acceptable!!. this is by far the best Crash Bandicoot game by far, since I personally thing that going trough naughty dog to travelers tales lost a bit of formula of this great franchise, but oh well see yas.