I'm a big Crash fan and got this game the Christmas it came out. This game is incredible. Its easy enough for young kids (about 6 or 7) or even really experienced gamers (age depending.) It has very good graphics for a PS1 game, and you can use the dual shock or regular controls in this. Unlike former Crash games, you use more devices than before, and in some levels are actually Coco (Crash's intelligent little sister.) For example:
Baby Tiger: Ridden by Coco
Baby T-Rex: Ridden by Crash
Jet Ski Mobile: Ridden by Coco
Motorcycle: Ridden by Crash
Fast-moving spaceship: Ridden by Coco
Bi-Plane (with guns): Ridden by Crash and Coco (level depending)
Underwater Jet Ski Mobile: Ridden by Crash
Additionaly, you get to fight other bosses, and defeating each boss earns you a special item. There are 5 in all.
#1: Super Body Slam (lets you break through protected crates)
#2: Double Jump (allows you to jump over higher obstacles)
#3: Tornado Spin (spins around wildly, helps you glide over big
pits)
#4: Fruit Bazooka (a giant gun that can blast away your enemies!)
#5: Speed Shoes (gives you power to run, used to get certain relics)
The final thing: Crystals, Gems, Colored Gems, and Relics
Crystals: Right on the path for normal levels. They're thin and pink. Touch them and you've obtained them. Just beat the level to earn one after you pick them up. One per normal level.
Gems: To get these, break all the boxes in the level. Sometimes you'll have to have earned a color gem to get a gem. 1 to 2 per normal level.
Colored Gems: 5 in all, one every 5 levels (25 normal levels, 5 secret levels.) They serve as platforms to new areas in some levels. To get them, ride on a platform in some levels (for the platform to appear, you have to not have died up to that platform.) One in a level every 5 levels.
Relics: A new addition. After you get the relic in the level, go back and get the relic by going as fast as you can through the level and getting a certain time. There are three types:
Sapphire--The basic. You can get this with no speed shoes.
Gold------More advanced. Most level you need speed shoes.
Platinum--Expert level! EXTREMELY hard to aquire. Lots of practice needed!
That's pretty much all that you need to know. All I can say is besides the tips, have fun!