First off I've only owned two Crash Games. The first Crash Bandicoot and Wrath of Cortex for the PS1. I played a demo for Warped on my Spyro the dragon game and wanted it ever since. I bought it on Amazon and its safe for me to say that...THIS IS THE CRASH I KNOW AND LOVE!^_^

 For those who don't know Crash Bandicoot first came out in the 90's as a standard, straight-forward platformer. You're a mutated Bandicoot named Crash who escapes from the evil mad scientist Dr. Neo Cortex and must go back to save your girlfriend. In Warped Dr. Cortex now works for Uka Uka (The brother of Aku Aku) an evil mask that wants to destroy crash and take over the world. He instructs Cortex to go through time and collect Crystals and Gems that hold extreme power. Crash has to literally race through time and jump, spin, and dance his way through time to retrieve them before Cortex gets ahold of them.

 This game is just as fun as the first one. It brought me back to a time where video games concentrated more on gameplay and content rather than graphics which games today seem to concentrate almost too much on. The controls are spot on. You can build momentum for jumps, move in any direction, and really I never had problems with the controls even in the first Crash. One thing I REALLY love about this one is that I don't feel bad when I die! This game has some really interesting death scenes rather you're forcibly kissed by a frog that changes into a prince, eaten by lions, thrown into the screen by a two-headed fat person, or so on. When I finish the game I plan on seeing how many ways I can die:) Some worlds replicate each other but are harder and take more and more skill to get through. The boss battles are really diverse and take strategy, timing, and skill to get rid of. I must confess I found the first boss and 2 worlds extremely easy. Its not until the 3 that the game just goes "F*** this! I'm gonna make your time a living hell"! Its still way easy so far compared to the first game though which really did what I said above. I also noticed something that first caught my attention in Wrath of Cortex. The game seems extremely open when it comes to lives. Seriously I'm not even half way through the game and all ready up to 50 almost. I guess I'm that good at playing. Im definately buying the second one.

 I admit I'm disappointed at the way the turn the series have made. I wish they kept it as a patformer and just added maybe some adventure elelments to it like they did Twinsanity (even though its glitchy as hell). Naughty Dog where did you go? Crash Bandicoot Warped is just what I expected it to be. Its funny, addicting, challenging and overall just shows graphics don't make the game, but its content and gameplay.