[Note: This review has been edited since it was first posted.]
I loved this game when it first came out, and to this day it's one of my favorites. The wrestlers (most of them anyway) have a whole lot of moves, and they are not all the same for every wrestler. The inclusion of the "real" wrestlers' signature moves is very cool. One of the things I especially like about the game is the number of wrestlers on it. There are 62 of them --- that's a lot more than a lot of later wrestling games have. A few of them are locked at the start, but they're not really that hard to unlock --- at least not with the difficulty level on "easy." Several wrestlers who were later on the Legends games (Hogan, Macho Man, Sting, Bret Hart, Steiners, and others) are here. Some of the wrestlers are made-up, or at least I assume they are. The graphics are good. The wrestlers are blocky, but the "real" wrestlers' faces are very realistic. The play control is very good --- a lot better than the play control on World Tour. Some people may think the gameplay isn't "deep" enough, but it suits me just fine. The 40-man Battle Royal is really cool. There are several different arenas, which is kinda neat but (in my opinion) doesn't really do that much for the game. The sound effects and music are (in my opinion) not great but good enough. The wrestlers don't have individual entrance music, but oh well --- no biggie (again, my opinion). There is no commentary, but that's fine with me because I always turn off the commentary on games, anyway. One of my fave game features is the Costume Change mode. This mode lets you take wrestlers and put other wrestlers' outfits on them, and lets you edit the colors of the outfits. That's fun (I think so, anyway)! You can even change the wrestlers' names, but why would you ever really want to do that (unless maybe somebody [like Giant] has changed their name in real life)? There isn't much if anything about this game that I have any major complaints about. Sure, it's dated now, but I still find it as fun as I did back in 1998 (I think that's when it first came out). Just because something is old now, that doesn't mean it isn't still good!