It's strange to me that in all the years since "Super Mario 64" was released in 1996, I never wrote  a review for this groundbreaking, utterly fantastic game that has meant so much to me over the years.

To give just a little history, when the N64 came out, I had some family who were in the middle of a divorce after an ugly affair in 1994 with a pastor of a church we all went too.  My friend, (who we will call Courty) who was born in 1987 and who I consider as close as a brother, was just a young kid and going through the hell of his family disintegrating.  His father was dysfunctional and drank a lot and his mother was an adulterer.  His mother and my mother grew up together and known each other since grade school.  His brother and my brother were best friends, being the same age.  And although there was a seven year difference between himself and I, we were super close (and still are), because of how close our families were (and still are).  I remember turning 17 in January of 1997, and my family had a big birthday party and I got my very own N64 and a copy of this game.

Those were brutally hard times for all involved with so much pain.  The parents divorced and the dad got his own house.  In the midst of that, the boy's dad bought him an N64, along with "Super Mario 64" and "Star Wars, Shadows of the Empire".  For me, this game is forever tied up into that emotionally turbelent period in our lives, because both my friend and myself would play this for hours and hours just to escape the hollowness and the pain we both felt at what was going on around us.  That, my friends, is the power of Super Mario.

Anyway, I grew up in the NES and SNES era.  Context is so important, because without the context of growing up in those years, the impact of "Super Mario 64" is completely lost to younger people.  To the generation that has "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim", "Gears of War", the "Grand Theft Auto" series, the "Mass Effect" trilogy, "Assasin's Creed", "Metroid Prime" trilogy,  and the "Call of Duty" series, playing through "Super Mario 64" now may feel like you're going backwards, and you'd be right.

The best analogy for those who didn't grow up during that time would be like watching a black and white television from the 1950s or 1960s, and then within a mere ten years, you are now watching a Plasma TV capable of 3D technology.  Or the 1939 movie "The Wizard of Oz", when Dorothy opens the door and everything goes from black and white to glorious colour.  "Super Mario 64" was THAT much of a gamechanger.

I've been with Super Mario since day one all the way back in 1985.  There is not a single "Super Mario" game that I have missed out playing at launch, with only two exceptions, "Super Mario Land" for the Gameboy and "Super Mario Sunshine" for the Gamecube.  Each Mario game was a revelation and just utterly fun back in that era, even though they were short.  My first exposure to "Super Mario 64" was sometime in the fall of 1996.  I just remember being in utter amazement - remember, though there may have been some 3D forays before "Super Mario 64", nothing, and I mean NOTHING, looked this amazing or played this awesome.  I would play the game for hours and hours, and felt like I was in a fully interactive novel or world.  I can remember thinking "Where do game makers go from here?  This is utter perfection!"  I niavely thought the graphics would never be equaled, they were that good.  I remember telling Courty's brother (my own brother's best friend) back in the late 1980s "Wow, just imagine if they go past 16 bit and go to like 80 bit or 100 bit!  Just think how amazing that would be!"  And with the 64 Bit, I felt that what I had been talking about had come to past.

For those who didn't grow up back then, it can be easily to forget just revolutionary "Super Mario 64" truly was.  Just eleven years prior to the 1996 induction of "Super Mario 64" to popular consciousness, we were playing such early titles as the original "Super Mario Bros." (the best launch game for the NES hands down), "Excitebike", the absolutely dreadful "Ten  Yard Fight", etc.  From 1985 to 1994 we saw some of the greatest games ever made in glorius 8-Bit, but especially the early NES titles are so far removed from current gaming that there will be those out there who find them hard to play.  Look at some of the old NES ads on Youtube or game magazines from the 1980s and 1990s.

But technology moves on, and the SNES and Sega Genesis were fighting for dominance in the early 1990s.  Once we graduated to the SNES and the Genesis, gamers moved beyond mere platforming to more expansive types of games such as the "Final Fantasy" titles, "Act Raiser", "Sim City", "Super Metroid", "Chrono Trigger", and "The Legend of Zelda: A Link tot he Past".  Either that or we were all playing Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter II clones.  By 1995 we saw Nintendo push the SNES to its limits technologically with such titles as "Star Fox" and the "Donkey Kong Country" trilogy, as well as "Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island".

The plot is simple.  Bowser kidnapped Princess PEACH Toadstool (the first time she was ever referred to as "Peach" in North America) after the Princess invited you over for some cake.  It is up to you as Mario to go forth and rescue Power Stars that are hidden throughout the castle.  Enough about the plot.  Let's get to the gameplay.

And the gameplay, oh the gameplay!  You are in a fully interactive 3D environment.  After turning the N64 on and getting a file set up (after spending entirely too much time messing with Mario's face at the starting screen - don't worry, we all did that!), Mario jumps out of a pipe, and you are in a field with a castle ahead of you.  You can jump, swim, scoot, crawl, kick, punch, wall-jump.  Yo  can do a backflip even and a triple jump and a long jump.  The game is so vibrant, colorful, and, at least back in the late 1990s, simply a beauty to behold.

You go to the castle, and after you are introduced to your friendly camera man (who everyone now very fashionably hates on), the Lakitu (in a rare state of not throwing Spinies at you), you are free to go where ever you wish, provided you have enough stars.  The castle is the overall hub, and by jumping into different portraits on walls, pools, down tunnels, and even looking into the sunlight in the castle will open you to one of the game's fifteen overall levels or a secret level.  Nintendo wisely made certain parts of the castle inaccessible until you have gained enough power stars, but these goals are quite easy to meet.

There is simply so much to do and so much to see, whether you are fighting King Bob-Omb and the Bob-Omb Battle Field, raising with Koopa the Quick, and navigating the snowy terrains of "Cool, Cool Mountain" and "Snow Man's Land".

The levels are just so memorable.  Mario controls the water levels present in "Wet Dry World".  "Dire Dire Docks" has an enormous sub and a cool stingray.  "Tall, Tall Mountain" pits you against a theiving monkey.  "Shifting Sand Land" features a great battle against a pair of hands called Eye Rok, a cranky vulture who will steal your cap, and a great pyramid.  "Letha Lava Land", a level literally likened to hell, has a volcano and a sea of lava that Mario must contend with.  The last two levels are particularly fiendish: "Tick Tock Clock" is an enormous clock level that speeds up or slows down depending on what time the clock reads when you enter the level, and "Rainbow Ride" (always my personal favorite) is probably the most difficult, with an expansive sky level where Mario gets to ride magic carps riding on enormous rainbows.

Then there's "Whomp's Fortress" (which was remade into a retro stage for "Super Mario Galaxy 2"), always fun, "Jolly Roger Bay" (a nautically themed, very creepy level with a scary eel and an enormous pirate ship; it was always my least favorite), a haunted mansion "Big Boo's Haunt", and a level of either epic or bite size preportions, "Tiny-Huge Isaldn".  Each level brings new and fun ways to interact with the environment hithertoo unseen previously in other levels.

There are all three secret cap levels that are a lot of sun as well, including flying.  "Super Mario Bros. 3" may be the first time Mario flew, but it was "Super Mario 64" that Mario really took to flight like never before.  Also the Princess's Secret Slide is a lot of sun fun, and houses the most obscure star of them all (you must beat the slide under 21 seconds, and the most surefire way to do that is actually jump off the slide and land down much farhter)

One thing that I really love about "Super Mario 64", and which the other 3D Marios have not included, is how open ended the title is.  You can really go anywhere and are not limited to individual stars.  As great as the Galaxy games are (and believe me, they're fantastic, especially the second), they don't have the open ended exploration of SM64 and are more linear and streamlined.

The closest akin to the exploration factor is "Super Mario Sunshine" (a game I have tried and simply cannot get into).  However, whereas you are limited to whatever star you choose in "Super Mario Sunshine" (and this fact alone makes for some tedious gameplay in that title), in "Super Mario 64" has all six stars available (with only one or two exceptions) from the get go, giving you much more freedom to do whatever you want.  Streamlining is important, and when Nintendo removed the abilitiy to get any star you want at the onset of the level, they ended up with the somewhat confusing and tedious levels of "SMS".  It's a very fine line between streamlined and open ended, but SM64 has that balance spot on.

Going back now, yes, even though back then I didn't think it was possible back in 1996 when I first played this, we moved far beyond this game graphically.  The polygons look dated, and the camera has gotten a notorious repution, with IGN even calling the camera system "broken" by today's standards.  And yes, subsequent titles may have perfected the 3D gameplay, but really, it was Mario that led the charge, and even today the game holds up well.  Now I play "Super Mario 64" with my own kids who love it too.

This game has meant so much to me and got me and my brother (he may as well be) through some very rough times.  Add And for that I will always be thankful.  One of the best games out there, without a doubt!