Super Mario 64 is a game I've wanted to play for ages. I finally decided to purchase it and I was not disappointed. In my opinion Super Mario 64 is the best in the Mario series and one of the best games ever. This game was a breakthrough in 3Dplatformers and it's easy to see why. The 3D is great for its time and the style is incredible.

The game is addictive as well. I would play for hours and hours and wouldn't want to stop, and Super Mario 64 does not get tiresome after you beat it for the first time.

The plot is simple, Bowser kidnaps Princess Peach and Mario must save her. But the plot's not important in a video game. The game play is what matters.

The game is fast paced and you always have new areas to unlock. Despite not having any other areas to go to outside of Princess Peach's castle there are tons of areas inside. Getting to new areas is simple. You need a certain amount of stars to unlock doors, and unlock enough doors to unlock boss doors. Overall, there are 120 stars in the entire game and I would recommend a guide because of how challenging it is.

When battling Bowser in this game, I was disappointed. He's so easy. When I beat him the first time I was surprised how easy he was. It was more difficult getting to Bowser than it was battling him. But all three incredible boss stages that were before the battles are so much fun it makes up for it.

There are also hidden items, characters and power ups for Mario to find.

Now there are a few problems like any other game that I think are quite frustrating. Mario's controls sometimes are a little tough. His wall jumps have to be so precise and if you mess up you have to do it again and again, and the camera sometimes can be tough to use in certain areas. But, despite these problems it's still a great game.

This game is a must own for Mario fans. While yet you must already know this since I'm writing this review thirteen years later. : )

Super Mario 64 will always be known as one of the best 3Dplatformers in video game history.