I remember the first time I laid eyes on this game. I had been hearing about how awesome the Nintendo 64 was going to be from schoolmates as we eagerly anticipated the USA release of this system. I remember hearing how in demand it was and the ensuing shortage for the upcoming Christmas before I even saw it. Then one day I was Christmas shopping with my dad and happened to come across a demo set-up in the mall, and I finally got to see what the massive hype was about.

The game was bright and colorful, and Mario was fully 3D. A large crowd had gathered around to catch a glimpse of the latest in video game technology, and I only lingered for a moment, yet my first impression is still fresh in my memory. Mario 64 looked like nothing I had ever seen before, and also looked leaps and bounds better than anything I had ever seen on Playstation, Sega Saturn or any other system. I was very impressed.

Several months later, I finally saved up enough money to purchase the system bundled with Mario 64. I loved the game dearly back then, and to this day I still love this game. It still looks, feels and plays unlike any other game that came out during that era. While Zelda Ocarina of Time is similar graphics-wise, that game is so great in it's own right that both games deserve to be recognized separately.

Mario 64 is a perfect launch game for the Nintendo 64 home console system. Looking at the controller for the N64, one might have been understandably skeptical due to the layout. However, Mario 64 is actually very easy to control and is a good introduction to getting gamer's accustomed to the new feel of the controller and it's new button layout.

When I say the controls for this game are very simple, I must also mention that Mario is capable of many actions. Mario can walk, run, crawl, jump, triple jump, backflip, side somersault, wall kick, swim, climb, punch, kick, slide, fly, shoot from a cannon, butt-splash, hang, hand-over-hand, crouch, surf on koopa shells, and even look around. While this scope of actions seems like a lot and likely difficult to master, the reality is that yes, it is alot but is not difficult at all to master. A few of the skills, such as wall kicking or flying take some practice to master, but the majority of Mario's actions are very easy to master, which results in very fluid gameplay and the sensation of actually being Mario.

The camera angles are manageable considering you have control over them. You might find yourself slightly frustrated with it in certain enclosed areas (such as Boo's Haunted House) but for the most part, the camera angles are very functional. The gameplay is extremely fun with a very gradual learning curve. While you only need 60 stars to complete the game, players looking to one-up the challenge can elect to try and collect all 120 stars, which requires true mastery of the game.

The music is outstanding. Koji Kondo, also famous for the Ocarina of Time music, did all the music for Mario 64 and succeeded in composing very memorable and enjoyable tunes. My personal favorite is and will always be the Jolly Rodger Bay / Dire Dire Docks music.

The level design is unique with some truly large levels offering tons of exploration. Mario will find himself in sunken ships, caves with toxic gas, inside a volcano, a pyramid, in a desert, a fortress in the sky, sliding down slippery snowy slopes, and even inside a giant strange clock. This game is filled with fun challenges and hours of terrific gameplay. I don't believe I've ever met anyone that didn't find this game fun to play.

No, Luigi is not in the game. There was a major hoax citing ridiculous methods that would unlock Luigi, but all proved untrue. Kind of strange Luigi wasn't in the game, but not that big of a deal.

Mario 64 is well loved and remembered, but it is kind of strange that the Nintendo 64's launch game is almost incomparable to the entire library of games that followed. Super Mario World on Super Nintendo was a gem, but there were other great games in the SNES library. However, with the Nintendo 64, Super Mario 64 along with Zelda Ocarina of Time stand head and shoulders above pretty much every game in the Nintendo 64 library, which is disappointing considering that we see the Nintendo 64 was capable of supporting top-notch games. The Nintendo 64 library just didn't manage to produce games that lived up to the original launch game.

In the end, Mario 64 will always be remembered as the revolutionary classic that literally defined the Nintendo 64-bit era.