The Mario series from Nintendo has consistently produced games that are refreshing and innovative, not to mention extremely addictive and fun to play.  First there was the original Super Mario Brothers and Super Matio Brothers 3 for the NES, to Super Mario World for the SNES, and now Super Mario 64 for the N64.  The game is 5 years old now, but it's still just as fun to play as ever.  The graphics and sound make excellent use of the N64's capabilities to create a 3D world that was just jaw-dropping in 1996 and is still pretty awesome today.
As others have said, the basic story of the game is classic Mario:  Bowser has kidnapped the Princess, and Mario must rescue her.  To do this, he must collect a minimum of 70 stars from the 15 worlds in the game.  These worlds are accessed by jumping through paintings and other objects scattered throughout the Mushroom Castle, plus there are 15 stars contained within the castle itself.  Although you only need 70 stars to finish the game, there are a total of 120 stars available for collection, and you won't be satisfied until you have collected each one.  The 15 worlds have varying levels of difficulty, but each and every world has some easy stars and some that are very difficult.  It took me about 100 hours total to collect all 120 stars and rescue the Princess the first time.  Each level has a different theme.  Some are on mountains, some are in water-filled caves, and there is one set inside a giant clock.  My personal favorite is the haunted house level.
The gameplay in Mario 64 is exceptional.  Mario has many different types of moves, ranging from tiptoeing around sleeping enemies, to a great long jump, to a very difficult-to-master wall jump.  You must master all the moves if you expect to get all 120 stars.  Also, there are three special hats scattered throughout the game that allow Mario to fly, walk underwater, and become invisible.  Again, all are vital for 120 stars.
After you finally win, you might expect that you will never want to take on such a huge task again.  But, such is not the case.  Even though you have all 120 stars, you can go back to levels you have beaten and play them over and over, as much as you want.  You'll be tempted to do just that.  The experience of playing through the incredible world of the Mushroom Castle is such that you will be coming back for many repeat visits.