"Super Mario" is arguably the most successful and most recognizable brand name in the history.  It seems that every time Nintendo releases a new episode in the series, it hits video gaming gold.  From the earliest release of the original "Super Mario Brothers" on the original Nintendo Entertainment System, it has always been a hit.  Even lesser known titles in the series, like "Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island", stay faithful to the series and produce very entertaining gameplay.  With the dawn of Nintendo's three dimensional, 360 degree rotating platform, Nintendo 64, the question became, "Could Nintendo maximize the potential of this new platform and give Mario a fresh angle?"  The answer, in the form of "Super Mario 64", proved to be a quite emphatic "YES!"

"Super Mario 64" takes the technique of 'multiple goals' for each level (introduced in "Super Mario World") and expands it in a quite impressive manner.  There are 15 worlds Mario must navigate in an effort to free the Princess who is trapped in paintings in her castle.  The goal is to accumulate at least 70 stars to unlock the passage way the final battle with Bowser.  As each world contains 7 stars of its own in addition to 15 bonus stars around the castle, it would seem to be a walk in the park.  However, all is not as it seems.  Several of the doors leading the different worlds are sealed off either by locks or star requirements.  Therefore, there is a limited amount of ways to accumulate the necessary stars until more stars are attained or earlier battles with Bowser are won.  Of course, this leads to a journey through amazing worlds were Mario travels the depths of the ocean, soars in the open sky, battles over scorching lava, and even gets to sneak through a haunted house.  The variety of worlds and objectives are truly amazing, as are the new moves Mario can make to help accomplish these goals.  No longer content to just move forward and jump, Mario can now do backflips, long jumps, wall leaps, and crawls.

One other aspect of "Super Mario 64" that makes it standout is its use of rotating camera angles to track Mario's movements through each world.  It takes some getting used to, but it enables a truly three dimensional feel.  This is game that Nintendo built its release of Nintendo 64 around.  It delivered magnificently then and, with its continual replay value, still delivers today.