1996 was a fairly important year in the realm of video gaming. The Super Nintendo Entertainment System dies out in the United States. Diablo comes out for the PC. However, the biggest news is the launch of Nintendo's amazing new system: the Nintendo 64, which was lauded for its beautiful graphics and a brilliant new controller.
Two games were released along with the system. There was Pilotwings 64, which was not exactly what was expected, but the other game was called the greatest game of all time (as of 1996, that is, at least in the eyes of critics) by several source. And it really was.
The first thing that strikes your eyes is its delicious eye candy. The first thing that pops out at you after the title is Giles Goddard's Mario face. And boy does it look good! But enough with the intro. It's time to see whether the game itself passes the graphics test.
Answer? Yes it does. Even after five years, Super Mario 64 is still one of the most beautiful games for Nintendo's crowning glory (speaking from a fanboy's POV.) The character and tree designs are very outdated by today's standards, but the water is still lovely (though surpassed) and some of the brick and stone backgrounds still are the most realistic that I have ever seen. Today the graphics would get a C by reviewers, but back in 1996, this game would get an A+.
But who cares how it looks. Let's see how it sounds.
The answer? Great! Before 1996, Nintendo fans never had a chance to hear Mario talk, but the first thing that greets you when you turn on the system is a jingle and the words "It's-a me, Mario!" and "Hello!" while a remixed version of the classic Mario theme plays in the back. But again, this is only the intro. The question is whether games sounds that good.
The answer, naturally, would be even better. Mario comes packed with a large batch of sayings including "Mama mia!", "Here we go!" and "Press start to play!" Unfortunately, everything else (other than Peach and Bowser) don't talk in anything else other than words. But remember the fact that this is a first generation cartridge game, and if people complain for Zelda, then they shouldn't complain here.
The music and sound effects are just divine. Outside the castle, you are greeted with the happy chirping of birds and the roaring of a nearby waterfall. Enter and the cozy castle theme starts playing. Each of the levels come equipped with music that ranges from peaceful to energetic to somber. The Bowser fight music ranges from rock to organ music, and it's all wonderful.
Now that the graphics and the sound are out of the way, let's get into the meat of the game: the gameplay.
The first thing most people would notice is how different this is from traditional Mario games. There are only 1-Up mushrooms, and the only pipe that appears is in the very beginning. However, Super Mario 64 is 3D, and most of those elements just wouldn't work in a 3D game.
The story, according to the manual, is that Peach invites Mario over to the castle for a cake. When Mario reaches the castle, he is greeted with a gruff voice. Wondering what went on, Mario explores the rooms and finds a giant painting where he can jump in. There, he finds himself in a new world, with a giant Bob-Omb on the top. He fights and defeats it (you'll have to do that part yourself) and gets a star. Later, he learns that Bowser has attacked the castle, captured the Princess, stolen the Power Stars, and has sent his army to take over the worlds inside the paintings, then the world itself.
Yeah, so it isn't much different from other Mario games, but that's not the point. The point is, there are 120 stars out there (although 70 is need to beat the game, but where's the fun in that?) for you to collect. Your misson to explore 15 worlds to find those 120 stars.
Well, instead of having a Super Mario and a Mario like in past Mario games, Mario has 8 life bars. Hitting certain enemies would make him lose 2 life bars, as well falling from semi-high heights. Burning Mario's butt will make him lose 3. Certain other enemies and falling from really high heights will make him lose 4. But don't worry. Coins and water will replenish your health. If you lose all 8 or fall down a pit, you lose a life. But for every 50 coins you get with a star and every 1-Up Mushrooms, you get a life.
Your moves include the standard running, punching, butt-stomping, as well as the kick, the long-jump, the wall-kick, the side-somersault, and the backflip. You can also swim! There are three special caps that gives you special abilities. The Flying Cap gives you the ability to fly. The Metal Cap gives you the ability to walk underwater and be immune to enemy. The Vanish Cap gives you the ability to walk through enemies and certain walls. Mario most employ all of those ablities to save the Princess and the world.
The Nintendo 64 controller, with its analog stick, makes it possible for Mario to perform the tasks successfully. (Just imagine travelling in a 3D world with a D-pad.) Some people complain about the camera angles and how you have to control them with the C-button. It may be annoying at first, but eventually you'll get used to it, and it'll come naturally, and you'll learn to play with the bad angles.
Super Mario 64 not only has good graphics, good sound, and good gameplay, but the fact that it is revolutionary (in that it brings gaming into the 3D world) makes it not only the best game of 1996, but possibly also the best game ever. That's right, even better than Castlevania and Super Metroid.