Megaman legends is capcoms answer to bringing Megaman into the 3d realm on the original playstation. However this game is extremly diffrent then any other megaman game out there. In fact it has a lot in common with zelda: ocarina of time and a few rpg elements such as final fantasy while still somewhat feeling like a Megaman game. Coming from the NES and SNES Megamans I never thought I would ever compare zelda and megaman together but surprisingly it works well. Its not the greatest  game or even the greatest megaman game ever but it is really fun in its own way.

Most people do not like the graphics in this game but i think there done really well. The only problem graghicly is due to the early psx hardware most 3d games looked blocky and pixely at the time and this on tries to smooth things out kinda cel shadish but not quite this leads to some blockeness but its still better then most 1998 and before graphics. Kinda a 3d playable anime style to it. The sound isn't to bad in this game. Voice acting can be really good or painfully bad andThe music is catchy maybe not as much as the nes megamans but still good. However there is moments without any music. Technically speaking I would say the game has aged well.

The thing I find most memorable about this game is the gameplay. Like I mentioned earlier this game takes megaman into zelda like enviorments with a few rpgs elements. There is a open world which was decent in size for its time, which the game takes place in a small town. There are dungeons to explore which you do so in order to find upgrades to your equipment. Speaking of which you can purchase and find diffrent armor and weopens with diffrent specs (attack, fire rate, etc) in a rpg like menu. With that being said it still manages to feel like a megaman game. There is plenty of missions of which you are running and gunning while jumping on platforms. The bosses while set up like zelda can be taken down easier by weopens you find around in dungeons.

As for the story it isn't to bad. It is a little childish but its still pretty good. The characters while the voice acting can be off at times can be good are very memorable. Tron Bonne makes her debut here as a villian who became popular enough to get her own game misadventures of tron bonne and a apperance in marvel vs. capcom 2 and appearing without megaman in the 3rd. There is also a N64 port of this game which isn't as good but if you don't have a psx its still playable plus a sequel. Anyway while the hardcore 8bit megaman players may be turned off by this i would still recomend getting this game