There seems to be a curse on Ace Combat akin to that on the Star Trek movies. And by that I mean that the odd numbered members of the series are forgettable, while the even numbered (save perhaps zero, but zero is the absence of value, right?) are stellar. Ace Combat 6. Awesome. Ace Combat 5. Uneven and over too quick. Ace Combat 4. Perfect. Ace Combat 3. Had half the missions removed for the U.S. release. Ace Combat 1 (Air Combat). Stone Age. And Ace Combat 2...

If you're into classic gaming and love the Playstation (and especially if you love air combat games) this is a definite buy. The sheer imagination that was put into this game is wonderful. You have night missions, sea missions, desert missions, high-altitude missions, ravine missions, and oh-so-wonderful city-liberation mission.

I've said it before and I'll say it again, there's more to graphics than just how many polygons you have and how detailed your textures are. Graphics, even low-res graphics, can and should be BEAUTIFUL. And beautiful this game is in all its Playstation polygon glory. The lighting, the jets, the far off cityscapes and the clouds in the sky, it's all just beautiful (to me at least). And better yet, unlike other air combat games of the era, everything moves at a rocketing speed. Even when you get close to the ground (where other games look like you're moving in slow motion), the game keeps a great sensation of speed.

The controls are uniformly tight, utilizing the analog controls to the full. And you can bank and pitch completely upside down, something that many similar arcade-style games of the time don't allow. The game also features a wonderful cockpit view that brings you into the experience even more. There's also voice chatter as you go, some nice arcade style music, and full voice command briefings (nice). Of course you also hear "Bingo!" every time you hit a target and get a comment every time you miss too, but that's just keeping with the arcade feel. The enemy A.I. might not be as good as you can get now, but it's definitely good for when this game came out, and you can still get shot down if you play on hard and don't watch yourself.

In my opinion this game was the first great console air combat game. If you love arcade style air combat games and play Playstation games, you just have to get this game.