This game realeased in 1997 (I think), was the first in the Klonoa series (which includles a few more games in Japan), and was defenently a "sleeper-masterpeice" for PSone. This game however feels a little bit different than the other games in this series, though I'm not excatly sure why. I think the main reasons it feels so different are: the graphics, the story line, the music, and the character differnces. Graphicaly wise, you can tell it's older, but the graphics have a certain charm to them. The few out-of-engine motion scenes though, are magnificent! However, the graphic style is drasticaly different from it's sequels. The plot is overall, a little more "classic fantasyish" and feels kinda like something you might read in a book (which is probably what they were aiming at since it has a "book theme"). It has a bit of a melancholy feel to it; which makes it feel slightly more intense than it's sequals. Actually, I think it's the best story of any of the Klonoa games. As for the ending, I loved it! Sad and moving without being overly sad. I think it's my favorite vidoe game ending! The BGM is a different style than Lunatea's Veil also, (It's PS2 sequal) less solemn and RPG like, and a little more lively, or something, not really sure what the word is, it fits the game well. What I mean by character differneces is that it has no familiar characters other than Klonoa and Huepow. Klonoa, however, is quite different than in his sequels. Dispite these differences, the gameplay is practicaly clone-copy of the others in the series, esspecial Lunatea's Veil. From what I have heard, many people that played this were dissapointed with the sequel. I think that it was probably because they were used to this style and didn't give it much of a chance (personaly, I was dissapointed with THIS game at first, then started to really like it after I got used to it). Anyway, bottom line is, that if you've played all the other Klonoa games, expect this one to be a little different, but defenently get it, if you enjoyed the others, you'll enjoy this! If you haven't played any of the other games in this great series, it's based on engaging gameplay with simplistic controls. This game is one of the few "2.5D" games in existance. It plays parellel to a 2D game (people still hanging onto their old copies of Sonic the Hedgehog 2 or Mario Bros. should try this). In this game, however, you are in a 3D environment (don't worry, the paths are clearly defined, you won't have any trouble figuring out where you can and can't go). You can interact with the background by throwing things into it, this is esspecially key in some bosses, This is the 2.5D part. There are 12 levels (not counting the final boss)in this game, plus an unlockable time attack level. This game is pretty easy, and if your looking for an extreamly hard, nail biting, challenge, this probably isn't for you. This is more of a fun, relaxing game. However, I love this game, and recommend it to all who own a Playstation!