This game is a winner, and a true classic.

This game redefined the role playing wheel, when it was released on PS1. It was a smash hit, and has since spawned many sequels to the original game.

The graphics are a nice step  forward from earlier RPG platforms including: NES, SNES, Sega, etc.

The controls are challenging, and to someone who doesn't want to take the time getting used to it impossible. However, when you buy an RPG you want a challenge, and Tomb Raider delivers that on all levels. As far as game control goes, it will definitely take some patience to learn the many skills Lara can do. She can do a variety of things like different jumps, flips, crawling, fighting moves, etc. If you have no patience, this game will drive you crazy. It really is a shame that some people tear down this game, when they have no idea what they are talking about. Who wants to play an RPG with no challenge, not me. This game takes time to learn how to master the acrobatic moves, fighting moves, jumps, etc. I like that, and if challenge is what you want, this delivers. Once you learn how the controls operate, you realize it is quite easy to use.

The graphics are really well done, and definitely an improvement over older platforms, too. The characters, and scenery are much sharper, in higher definition for then previous platforms, and more with more colors. One of my favorite characters is the huge T-Rex you must fight. It looks like a T-Rex, too. The graphics are just awesome. I love how the blood flies, when you kill an animal. Previous platforms didn't really do that, and  in such detail.

Another thing that made it better over older platforms is the continued ability to move freely about the landscape unrestricted, but with even more vantage points. You can view yourself from pretty much any angle. Top, bottom, sides, any angle, at any given moment. You can watch yourself from the side, then go to top view, bottom view, etc, etc. It's just awesome the advances over previous RPG platforms.

The music in this game is very well done, and of CD sound quality. The music is crystal clear, and fits the game perfectly. The background music is often very hauntingly eerie. Also, the sound effects are of nice CD sound quality, too.

This game has many, many hours of game play that will keep you busy for awhile. Lots of different scenery in different places of the world. You find yourself in a variety of places, and not just dungeons, and caves, but there is plenty of that, as well.

If getting through the many challenging levels, and trying to stay alive isn't enough for you, there are many, many hidden secrets for you too find, also. Some are easy to find, some are pretty challenging to find.

If you love exploring caves, catacombs, dungeons, and having to constantly fight, then you will love this game. Lots of challenges, puzzles, and lots of ways to die, too. The game requires patience, and if you are a true RPG fan this game is a must have.

Highly recommend, 5 stars.