So, this is where it all began - the original Tomb Raider. In November 1996, Britain was changing. With the phenomenal success of the Spice Girls and the phrase "girl power", there wasn't a better time to bring out an all-female computer game heroine who kicked [rear]! Enter Lara Croft. The game went straight to No. 1 all over the world and shifted more than 10 million copies to become THE biggest selling PlayStation game of all time. Lara soon became a cultural icon, gracing hundreds of magazine covers the world over - and not just computer magazines, mainstream magazines such as Rolling Stone and Time; undoubtedly the biggest magazine names in the world. Four sequels followed in the form of Tomb Raider II, Tomb Raider III, Tomb Raider IV: The Last Revelation and Tomb Raider IV: Chronicles. The five games have sold a combined total of 40 million worldwide and secured Eidos Interactive and more importantly, Lara Croft and Tomb Raider, a place in video gaming history as undoubtedly the greatest, most popular and enjoyable computer games of all time.
The story of Tomb Raider is simple really. Lara Croft is a semi-famous archeologist adventurer and has been hired by a mysterious woman, Natla (last name unknown) to search the globe for an ancient artifact, known as the Scion, that is beleived to have come from the lost city of Atlantis. Lara sets off on her travels to find this artifact but before she can find it, she must search other areas of the world to find clues and hints that will open the way forward to her ultimate prize. Around halfway through the game, while uncovering clues about the artifact in question, Lara also unveils the truth about Natla; a story told through amazing cut-scenes. The storyline is intriguing to say the least and keeps you on the very edge of your seat as you beg to know more, yet never for the game to end.
The game begins with simple, pedestrian levels for newcomers to get to grips with the controls. The enemies are only small in the first few levels; bats, dogs etc. that can be eliminated with a single shot of Lara's Pistols - a weapon that she has with her always that features an unlimited amount of ammo. The game has a massive 16 levels that will keep you playing for months - it took me 10 months to complete. In fact, I finished the week Tomb Raider II came out so once I'd finished with the first, I spent the next 10 months playing the second one! This has been a regular oocurance and has resulted in me playing all five Tomb Raider games for around 6 years without a break! I remember the days when I bought this game...I was only 10 and it scared me to death! The enemies may not look very real, but remember that controlling Lara is! You control her every move so her life is in your hands! At the time the game was released, the graphics were unbelievable and the scenery breathtaking. The former is not so much now, but the latter still stands. Graphics in computer games have come a very long way since 1996, but half an hours' play on Tomb Raider with Ms Croft, and its superior excellence shines through. The final levels are set in and around Atlantis, and are classic moments in video gaming history. From the rocky cliffs of Asia, to the hot muggy forests of South America and the haunting and eerie lost island of Atlantis, there's something here for everyone. Buy it now!
OVERALL GRADE: 10/10
All in all, Tomb Raider is the ultimate PlayStation game. Everything about this game is so enchanting and memorable. The atmosphere, the sounds the animals make, the noises Lara makes when falling off a rock, the music that cues to tell you something exciting is about to happen - everything! This is a true classic in video gaming history that deserves all the critical praise it recieved 6 years ago. If you haven't got Tomb Raider in your PlayStation games collection, it is not complete. Only when you purchase all 5 Tomb Raider games will your collection be complete. With the soon-to-be released Lara Croft Timb Raider VI: The Angel Of Darkness, all six Tomb Raider will keep me playing for decades, literally. I will still be playing Tomb Raider when I'm 60 years old, and I'm sure I'll not be the only one...