OH YES....this game is what it's all about.  Sure, it looks totally archaic now with its primitive low-polygon 3D (cf. Lara's Madonna-style pyramid breasts) and jerky low frame rate - BUT WHO CARES.  "Tomb Raider" was one of the first fully-realized 3D games, with huge environments and a camera that lets you explore them fully - something next-gen developers still seem to have a problem with sometimes - and, of course, best of all, an action hero that players across the board could instantly connect with.  Yes, Lara Croft - men want her, women want to be her...lol.  Forget about her later misadventures on celluloid and (worst of all) the PS2 platform.  Even on the PS1, all the new innovations in graphics and AI that cropped up in subsequent TR installments couldn't improve upon the originality of gameplay you have here in the debut.  The puzzles, the secrets, the at-times relentless action, this game has it all.

Much like Indiana Jones, we first encounter Lara as she explores some ruins in South America - allegedly the village of Vilcabamba, an actual archeological site in Ecuador, although as it appears in the game it's more of a generic hotch-pot of pre-Columbian art and architecture.  Of course you have the rolling ball traps everywhere, and of course she eventually finds a golden idol - more nods to Indy.  Later she explores Las Vegas versions of Rome and Egypt, slaughtering more endangered species in the process than are even left on the planet (PETA just loved this game) before proceeding to - where else? - Atlantis, which is naturally swarming with freakish and bloodthirsty mutants.  All this because she's in search of an artifact whose magical powers, if in the wrong hands, could destroy the world, or something.

It's easy to punch holes in the ridiculous plot, but that doesn't affect the entertainment value - again just like with Indy, you know it's stupid, but you're more than willing to suspend disbelief just to go along with the wild ride.  Getting through the levels is not always easy; you'll need to sharpen both your combat and puzzle-solving skills.  There's also a lot of replay value owing to the oftentimes diabolically-hidden "secrets," which usually contain caches of weapons and the infamous "medi-paks."

Play this game - it's almost like a cool retro thing to do now - and forget about everything that came after.  They have a new TR in the works now but it's got a lot of bad karma to overcome...so far nothing has matched this original masterpiece.