Tomb Raider 2 is my absolute favourite PlayStation game of all-time! I bought the game in December 1997, around the same time I got my PlayStation. But I never really liked Tomb Raider 2 and only managed to get halfway through the first level, before forgetting about it for a while. Four years later, in the summer of 2001, I dug it out again and decided to give it a go with the help of a strategy guide. What a shock I got!

After the phenomenal, worldwide success of the original Tomb Raider in November 1996, the Eidos Interactive guys put together the sequel, which, in a rare case, surpasses the original with flying colours. To save the game in the first, you had to find a crystal before continuing, wheras in Tomb Raider 2 you have the ability to save the game whenever you feel like. This comes as a great help, especially before taking off into a running jump over deep caverns and steep slopes. Lara also has much greater weaponary comapred to the last game. The first game featured Pistols, Shotgun and Uzis - that was about it. But with this game, you get weapons such as the Grenade Launcher and an M-16 Assault Rifle. While Tomb Raider 1 focused more on enemies in animal form, Tomb Raider 2 has a more worldly feel because the foes are mostly human. But the most notable change on Tomb Raider 2 is the welcome addition of vehicles. Tomb Raider featured none what so ever, but Tomb Raider 2 has a wide variety from the enjoyable speedboat in Venice and the snowmobile in Tibetian Foothills. Lara also took advantage of a make-over. The graphics where background scenery is concerned is still the same as the first game, but Lara herself has changed a lot; her hair is no longer tied in a bun, but flows freely down her back in a pony tail. The reason this wasn't featured in the first game is because the technology wasn't good enough for her hair to be in a pony tail - they couldn't get it to move in motion with her body (rather silly when you think about it now). Lara also possesses the ability to climb certain surfaces. The improved engine also served better lighting facilities, which allowed Ms Croft the ability to wield flares whenever she finds herself in dark areas. When it comes to the levels, the highlights are Venice, Offshore Rig, Tibetian Foothills (short but sweet - involves driving to one end of a road over pits to find a key, before driving all the way back to open a door that allows you to exit and begin the next level), Barkhang Monastery (HINT: Whatever you do, DON'T shoot the monks, they are here to help! They will dispatch any henchmen who try to kill you so you don't have to kill them! Accidently shoot one, and you'll have hundreds of monks trying to kill you!) and Temple of Xian.

OVERALL GRADE: 10/10

Tomb Raider 2 is, in my opinion, the greatest PlayStation game there has ever been. Yes, the graphics are laughable now because they have come so far since - especially on the PlayStation 2 and X-Box, but it all boils down to how enjoyable the game is. And in that category, it is still the most enjoyable and exciting game ever. Hundreds of titles try to replicate the suspense and adventure that is seen in the Tomb Raider games and fail miserably. Buy this now from Amazon - it'd be a shame not to and to ignore it would be missing out on one of the most classic video games of all time...