I picked this up in a pack of two other N64 games for five dollars at a used game store. Now usually, those bundle deals have all of the mediocre N64 games in them that no one wants to buy individually. However, Star Wars: Rogue Squadron is easily one of the best N64 games I've ever played.

Story: The game appears to take place between A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back in the Star Wars universe. You're Luke Skywalker, the original trilogy's protagonist and a fighter pilot for the Rebel Alliance. You'll help people with vital intelligence defect from the Empire, protect Rebel-allied cities, and of course fight the Empire!

Gameplay: Unfortunately, you never get to wield a light saber or anything. That's not what this game is about. It's a space-shooter. You travel to different planets in your X-wing or  one of the other Rebel spaceships and do missions.

Sound: There may be an N64 game with more audio than Rogue Squadron, but I've never played it, if so (and I've played entirely too many of them :P). There's so much voice-acting. There's lengthy descriptions of every ship in the Rebel Fleet, backstories for Rogue Squadron's fighter pilots, and of course in-level communication between the pilots.

Graphics: It's a very nice job by Factor 5, here. Of course it looks dated by now, but in the grand scheme of things, I'd say it's aged pretty gracefully. Make sure you have an expansion pack for your system to get the full effect.

Replay Value: You get medals for doing well enough in every stage. I'm told that if you get medals in every stage, you can unlock secret missions like the Battle of Hoth from Empire Strikes back and the Death Star run. If that's not incentive to beat this game 100%, what is?

It's clearly a classic N64 game, worthy of being mentioned in the same breath as Goldeneye64 and Ocarina of Time. I'd only that having a decent N64 analog helps.. a lot. If your controller's analog is dying due to wear and tear, you'll have a hard time towards the end of the game.