LucasArts has really outdone itself with this great N64 game.  After Shadows of the Empire was released, it quickly became obvious that the best level in the game was the first level, where you are flying a Rebel Airspeeder during the Battle of Hoth.  LA decided to make a whole game using a similar concept, and Rogue Squadron was born.  You play as Luke Skywalker, leader of Rogue Squadron, a group of elite rebel pilots who roam the galaxy, making life difficult for the Empire and its minions.  You play through 16 basic missions, which together form a loose plot chronicling the adventures of Rogue Squadron during the time between the destruction of the first Death Star and The Empire Strikes Back.  The missions range from simple search-and-destroy missions, to escorting supply trains, to freeing rebel soldiers from Imperial prison facilities.  Along the way, you must learn to handle a variety of rebel craft, from the X-Wing to the Airspeeder.  Each craft has its own strengths and weaknesses, plus each craft has a special weapon, which means that you are required to use each craft on certain missions.  After you complete each mission, you may be awarded a bronze, silver, or gold medal based on your performance.  After completing a mission, you can move on to the next one, or else go back and try again to get a better score.  The game gives you a score summary after each mission, so you know right away which areaas you need to improve upon to get the gold.
The look and feel of the game is excellent.  The graphics are superb, and the Expansion Pak boosts them to cinematic levels.  The sound is also excellent for a non-CD game, although the chatter from your squadron mates does get a little repetitive.  The game is contained within a 3D environment, giving the game a flight simulator-like feel.  The controls are pretty easy to get used to, though this DOES take a little practice.  Fortunately, the first couple of missions are pretty easy, so you get a good chance to get familiar with the controls.  The controls are the same for each ship, so you don't have to switch back and forth.
As stated before, the first couple of missions are pretty simple and easy.  But, starting with about the fourth mission, they start to get REALLY tough, with multitudes of TIE fighters, missile turrets, and gun emplacements all doing their best to shoot you down.  Expect to die many times before mastering each mission.  Getting the gold medal on all 16 missions will definitely take a while.
The game has a lot of nice bonus features as well.  As you complete missions and earn higher medals, three bonus missions will appear, plus you will gain access to new ships, including the Millenium Falcon and a captured Imperial TIE Interceptor.  There is also a passcode screen, allowing you to enter codes to unlock all sorts of interesting options, including a fourth bonus level and the Naboo Starfighter.  There is even a code to allow you to fly a Buick sedan against the Empire!  The codes themselves are pretty easy to get.  There are several sites on the Internet that have them.
It's easy to get immersed in the 3D environment of this game.  Many's the time I've found myself leaning over to the left or right as I put my X-Wing through a tight turn.  For those who like flight simulator-type games, I would say that this is the best FS game on the N64.  It's a bit dated now, what with the impending release of Rogue Squadron II for the GameCube, but for those N64 fans out there, this one is a must-have.