When the N64 system first kicked off, one of its first titles was "Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire".  "Shadows..." was a very entertaining version of novel it was based on.  It had challenging, yet rewarding, levels and overall solid gameplay.  However, it had two marks against it.  The first was that graphics had not fully realized the potential of the N64 and resembled SuperNES games on certain boards.  The second is that, except for the sheer enjoyment of the playing the game again, "Shadows..." lacks any real replay value.  The introduction of "Star Wars: Rogue Squadron" (based on a series of very successful novels) to the N64 environment corrected these problems and set a whole new standard for action/adventure games on ANY platform.

"Rogue Squadron" focuses on the missions of the famed Rogue Squadron, thought to be the most dangerous and lethal fighter pilot unit in the entire galaxy.  Led by the legendary Wedge Antilles, the squadron fights 16 regular missions (and 3 bonus missions) ranging from defending the homestead on the deserts of Tatooine to rescuing prisoners from the spice mines of Kessel to battling the terrifying 'World Devastators' on Mon Calamari.  That just barely scratches the surface of the exotic locales where missions take place.  The graphic environment is much more advanced this time around.  No more static matte backgrounds.  Everything is fluid and moves with the player.  The gameplay has also been enhanced.  Greater control is afforded to the joystick button on the control pad when it comes to manipulating the ships.  Overall, it makes for a spectacular gaming experience.

"Rogue Squadron" also adds a new twist that dramatically enhances its replay ability.  It awards medals (bronze, silver, gold) for defeating a level with increasing degrees of efficiency.  Achieving all of a certain kind of medal on all the regular missions also unlocks bonus missions.  This creates a greater challenge and a greater sense of accomplishment once the challenge has been met.

There is only one minor quibble about "Rogue Squadron".  In the game designers' quest to make a very demanding game, they make some of the levels almost too hard to defeat even with the highest level of skill.  The most glaring example of this is the level 'Raid on Sullust'.  Flying as a (supposedly) heavily armored Y-Wing, one is supposed to be able to fly skillfully and defeat the mission.  However, the board is heavily populated with missile turrets that defend each of the 12-15 targets that must be hit.  With skillful flying, it may be possible to knockout 3 or 4 of those targets and corresponding guns and turrets before dying, but on the life, it's likely the next ship could be destroyed in less than 10 seconds.  With only 3 ships per mission, it's impossible to defeat that mission without using the 'unlimited lives' cheat code (which will NOT be revealed here).  However, there's no shame in using that code, and it is necessary if one intends to achieve the silver or gold medals.  So, it's a minor annoyance.

"Rogue Squadron" raised the bar to an exceptionally high level for action/adventure games that other platforms have repeatedly shown a failure to meet.  Nintendo still gets it, though, as it followed this game with the even more successful "Rogue Leader" for GameCube.  "Rogue Squadron" is a must have for any serious gamer's library.