I'll preface this by saying yes I have played through FFVII on the playstation when it first came out. I've probably played through it at least a dozen times as I just enjoy the story, how it unfolds, the characters you meet and the events that transpire that intertwines their stories together.

Prior to this game, I was mostly into sports/FPS type games. An RPG (heck I didn't even know what that meant at the time) game was not even remotely on my list of games that were coming out that I wanted. A friend of mine where I was working at showed me a gamer mag that had a full rundown of this game. Indeed it seemed very impressive and the more he talked about it, the more I got interested in it.

Then came release day. I still wasn't sold on it but after leaving work I figured... what the hell. Drove 45 minutes north to the nearest mall where a buddy mine worked at EBGames. Soon as I entered he was like "Did you preorder this!!". I told him no and that I wasn't really interested in RPG's as they always sound boring and I'd lose interest quick and waste my money. He showed me a quick demo and I admit, it got me thinking as to "I wonder what happens after this...". I finally said sure. He hooked me up with the strategy guide, free tshirt and the 3 disc game... 3 DISCS!! When I cracked open the case and saw 3 discs... I knew this would be an epic, legendary tale. I just didn't know how epic.

I won't go much into the characters as they have been around a long time and most know who/what they are. But the story... wow. I could not have been more hooked. At first it started off a little slow, mostly to get you introduced to the characters and get some backstory going. After the 2nd mako reactor explosion and you get knocked into slums and fall through the church and meet Aeris... it all changes. The direction, tone and emotion starts running higher. Battles get more intense. You really get the feel that something big, much bigger than even all these characters is building up. It all seems to point to Shinra, but even as you infiltrate it, something is even more disturbing. JENOVA. Soon as I saw that short cutscene with Cloud peeking inside its stasis chamber.. my jaw dropped. I wanted to know what it is, where it came from, what they are using it for etc etc etc. But thats what set this game apart. The more answers you get, the more questions were raised than before.

The world is huge, lots of explorable areas with side quests and storylines. I spent alot of time raising the Chocobos and racing them to get the Gold Choco so I can access the caves that contained important and powerful items and materia.

Materia System: One of the best magic systems I have encountered to date. While you won't use all the materia you buy/find. Its the reward of seeing that glowing green/blue/red/yellow/purple stone that makes you fight to get it and see what it is. Summons are excellent with great animation for the time it was made. Knights of the Round was very long to summon, but the damage and wait is well worth it.

Characters: Some of the most diverse ever seen and very deep with different backgrounds. I think the first time I really got a sense of how immense this story was getting was when I first went into Shinra Mansion with all the creepy creatures you fight and head into the basement where all the Shinra research was stored regarding JENOVA, Sephiroth and the experiments. The characters sucked you in with their drive and emotion to the situations. Making you want to keep going and see whats around the next corner.

In conclusion, for us long-timers here this game never gets old. For the newcomers, get ready to experience something extraordinary. To quote the back of the Playstation case.. "What erupts goes beyond imagintion".