Possibly the most original game idea in the history of adventure games, _Grim Fandango_ has a charm which is all in the execution.  This is as close to being in a movie as the adventure game genre has yet allowed.  Blending the tradition of Mexican folklore with the suave of sixties' beat  culture and the style of _The Big Combo_, _Fandango_ is a sensory  explosion.  Somewhat courageously, it does *not* attempt to make its  graphics realistic.  Rather, it searches successfully to use its medium to  best effect.  Like the best films, _Fandango_ manipulates its elements to  produce a world unto itself.  Its first-rate direction and hitherto  unique-to-adventure-games 3D technology  points the way forward for the  adventure games.
True, some of the puzzles are hard, but none of them  really seem out of place.  Indeed, there is with _Grim Fandango_ a true  sense of plot.  Maybe the characters don't develop as they do in novels or  great films, but, thanks to fine vocal talent and crisp writing, they do  maintain charming integrity throughout.
If I have a complaint with the  game, it is the interface by which your character, Manny, communicates with  others.  You choose from among several sentence options, like those old  "choose-an-ending" books.  It's not a *bad* way to play a game, I  suppose, but just as multiple choice tests are always easier than writing  essays, being able to choose from amongst a few limited options make it  easier to get information out of the rest of the game's cast.  As a  result, solving problems is sometimes dead simple.  Of course, there aren't  many better options for game developers trying to give players a sense of  control of their destinies, but it makes one long for the day when the  promise of a game like _Titanic_, with its limited ability to understand  unique phrases typed in by the player, might be more fully realized.
Some people, though, might like the fact that they exhaust their  investigations of other characters pretty quickly.  It does speed game  play, and isn't as frustrating as trying to find the right questions on  your own might be.  This *is* a big game, with lots of scenes and lots of  people to meet.  Speed-of-play matters.  So, even if I personally believe  there must be a better way to communicate to other characters, I can hardly  rate the game down for what is possibly the best solution currently  available.
Thus, even if you think you don't like adventure games, you  should still buy _Grim Fandango_.  Likewise, if you don't have time to play  adventure games, you should get a walkthrough and cheat your way to the  end, because the graphics, story, and soundtrack are just that good.  This  is one of the seminal achievements in the genre, and to miss out on it  would be to accept a huge gap in your understanding of where the games  industry might be heading.