In the year 1997, Goldeneye was released for the Nintendo 64 by Rare, an unknown company and new 2nd party developer. Rare had already made several games for the NES and enters the Nintendo 64 market with this release based on the classic James Bond movie of the same title. You can ask anyone who had a Nintendo 64 if they ever played this game and why it was so popular. You're guaranteed to hear 2 reasons in particular why this game is so revered.

REASON #1: This game is a prime example of how a developer took its time to make this game. It was more than 2 years since the movie it was based on came out and Rare had access to everything concerning the movie from the original orchestral music, likeness of the main characters and locations to the bonus villains of other James Bond movies such as Oddjob and Mayday. They didn't rush this out the door like some developers do when they wanted their games released alongside the films it was based on and it always guaranteed to be a huge mistake. This game was a huge success and is still played by many video gamers.

REASON #2: Nintendo had no idea that the multi-player section of this game would be just as popular to play in or more popular than the single player mode. Rare admitted in an interview after the game was released that they had no intentions of putting together a multi-player mode until later in its development stages. Though it may be limited by today's standards, you had the basics: several stages based on the single player mode, all of the weapons were available, all of the main characters plus the enemy soldiers and classic Bond villains and several game modes such as free for all death match, team death match, you only live twice (2 lives) etc. and you can select the weapons in group categories along with time limits per match. This added a lot of re-playability after you finished the single player mode.

If you don't have a Nintendo 64, this game is reason enough to get it. This game helped Nintendo sell so many systems and it is a title I highly recommend getting if you can find it. It's a great game to play by yourself and an absolute blast to play with 3 of your friends. Peace. :)