What can be said about Ocarina of Time? I still remember that commercial from the late 90s. It told us that a "dark time is approaching." My interest was piqued. Then I realized it was a Zelda game. As a huge fan of A Link to the Past, I thought "ZOMG that looks awesome! I need to get this more than I've ever needed to get anything!" I remember reading about it in GamePro and obviously being interested, but that commercial sealed the deal. I knew I had to have Ocarina of Time, and that Christmas, my mom got it for me. Cheers!

A lot has been said about OoT over the years. It has been referred to as the "Best Game of All Time" by some, and the "Most Overrated Game of All Time" by others. I'm not really in either camp, but I lean closer to the former group, I suppose. If you haven't played it yet, you should. It's out on a variety of platforms and there's even remake of it with better graphics, but I would still recommend the N64 version if you want the same experience people had back in the 90s when OoT was THE GAME you needed to play.

Story:

You are Link. The Great Deku Tree, guardian of the forest in which you live, has summoned you. It's revealed that you must visit a far off castle and meet a "Princess of Destiny," and doing so brings you square into a struggle for the fate of Hyrule -- nay, the world -- itself.

Gameplay:

To complete your quest and save Hyrule, you must boldly enter into many dungeons which are filled with fierce skeletal warriors, human-sized spiders, horrible ghosts, and... immobile venus fly traps! Completing a dungeon gives you an item for the main quest, and completing all of the dungeons will allow you to face the final boss. There's much more to it that, but I'm trying not to spoil storyline specifics for those who haven't played it.

Hyrule is a vast world. One of your in-game guides tells you that "You can go wherever you want." That's true, to a point. There's a lot of exploration in Ocarina of Time. The game is always trying to point you toward a certain place, but whether or not you go there is often up to you. In an interactive world such as Hyrule, you can do many things. Why go see what's on Death Mountain when you could pour water into all of the soil patches in Hyrule? Or why go play the Shadow Temple -- which does not have any attractive Gerudo women -- when you could go to the Spirit Temple, which does? The exploration is one of OoT's best features, and it's probably better than any Zelda which came after it.

Controls:

They work well enough. You don't have the full on camera control that some of the later Zelda games give you, but personally, I never found it all that essential to the process.

Ocarina of Time introduced a "Z-targeting system" for aiming at enemies and talking to non-playable characters. What you do is get near an enemy/NPC, press or hold Z, and then press a button to talk to them/attack them. The system pretty intuitive and well made, so much so that its successors have yet to really improve upon it.

Music:

*90s gripe* Where is the classic Zelda overworld theme? Oh, we can hear it for like five seconds in the Hyrule Field theme? ARE YOU SERIOUS? But seriously, the music is pretty good. The Hyrule Field theme which I just mentioned is a good theme. The music does a good job of fitting the areas which you visit, for the most part.

Some later Zelda games use too much ambient music in the dungeons. OoT is guilty of this too, but only to a small degree. Apart from the Water Temple's melody, there's nothing that makes me want to relax and do some meditation or whatever while hearing it. :P

Oh, and I'm sad to report that the "OoT Commercial Music" is not in this game... :(

Replay Value:

It's pretty massive. You can do some Temples in different orders than you did your first time through, or you can use different items to progress through the Temples. I summed it up in a sentence, but there's hundreds of hours of replay potential there in just finding all of OoT's possible variations.

Like in the original Legend of Zelda, you can do the "Three Heart Challenge," which means you can complete the game without any of the health upgrades from beating a dungeon. Essentially, that's playing Hard Mode (although it isn't really that hard).

But if the Three Heart Challenge wasn't enough, OoT lets you tack on additional stipulations to make replaying it even harder! There are technically unnecessary items which let you breathe underwater and resist intense heat. Not getting them limits the amount of time you can spend in relevant areas. On top of all that, you could even as far to skip the health upgrades which halve your damage.

______

If you call yourself a gamer and have not played Ocarina of Time, what are you? Some undercover non-gamer sent in to infiltrate us!? Go play it now!