Being the third major installment of the all time great C&C seris tiberian sun was released in 1999 with enormous anticipation and fanfare. Unforunately the game didn't seem to live up to the hype but looking back today a few years later tiberian has stood the test as a fine solid game and now that it is basically at a bargain bin price i certainly think it's worth a look even for those who already own red alert 2. The main difference that i see between TS and RA2 is the look. Where the characters in RA2 are a bit too large the ones in TS may be a bit too small. RA2 has a more straight forward look much like ra1 were Ts has that cool golden dusk look. Since TS is a fantasy sci fi game almost anything goes where RA2 is based on more conventional warfare. That extra room for creative activity helps make TS a fun game. One example is the hunter seeker feature were you can create a drone attached to an explosive. This drone will take off on it's own and randomly attach itself and destroy an enemy unit or structure. You must have this feature because your opponent will. Another feature i like is the component towers were you make the towers early and later buy the defensive attachment. There's a vulcan cannon for fighting infantry, the grenade launcher and the anti air sam.
The concept for TS is the good guys, global defense initiative(GDI) vs the religious brotherhood of the nod, a fanatical terrorist group. Sounds familiar? Certainly a concept appropriate for today but the NOD is the military equal to the GDI. Both sides are distinctive and different. The GDI is more muscular and has more fire power while the nod relies on stealth and sneaky tactics. Strategy is far more important here than just cranking out more tanks than your opponent. For example the nod has an apc that can burrow under ground. Pack the thing full of infantry or engineers and sneak into the middle of an opponents camp underground only to resurface unleashing the attack. The gdi has ways to counter this however. A mobile sensor can be built that will detect the apc on radar and concrete can be placed down so the unit can't resurface in vulnerable areas of your camp. Some "new" features that differ from the original C&C and RA. A single engineer can take over an opponents building, infantry can't just be run over by vehicles and you have the deployable mcv feature that allows you to pack up your command center and move it.
Some other pros-
Being a 1999 game it doesn't require much computer.
Almost always runs smoothly.
Still a fairly vibrant online community with plenty of opponents to play.
Cheap! Only $... or $... if you also want the firestorm pack.
Very colorful and pleasant to look at. Graphics still look good compared to games that were released a couple of years later.
A 10 minute patch update that can be downloaded from the game.
A seemingly unlimited number of free mods that can be dowloaded off the internet.
The opportunity to make expensive powerful units like the mammoth tank.
There are a few negatives about the game. No naval units at all even though you have these really cool looking rivers. And a limited air force. Orca helicopters are pretty cool but that's it. Most mods are too extreme and change the game too much and there are very few maps you can download. No coop play.
Over all this is a fun game with the opportunity to change through mods. The graphics are cool and strategy is more important than with the prior C&C releases. Worth about 4 stars but at this price it gets 5.
...............socks