Well, it seems that those idiots who gave TS a low rating was because they  thought TS reused Red Alerts units. That is completely wrong . TS is set in  a futuristic world with advanced units. Red Alert was a PREQUEL to the  original C&C and was set throughout the Cold War. TS does not use  standard tanks and the new units were made as it would have been seen in  the year TS took place which was 2030. This is especially true with GDI and  there titans, disruptors, firestrom defense, rpg towers, MMK II and a whole  lot more. Nod has has the cyborgs, underground units, and and the banshee  aircraft etc. Now, are these the same units from RA, i don't think so.  Westwood retained a couple of units from the original C&C such as the  devil's tougue and light tank but they upgraded the functions of these  units to please gamers. Nothing from this game was copied from RA- trust  me. As for Starcraft some say its better than TS and some say it isnt. I  personally hate that game. Its way more complex to understand than TS  simple interface, no deformidable terrain, you have to RIGHT CLICK to  deselect units (very awkward), structures take extremely long to build - as  well as units, those same structures look like they have legs(terran  barracks and engineering bay). I also have no idea what the storyline is  about (no real actors - jus  bad FMVs).I could name a whole lot more but it  would take up too much space in this review. The only single thing i like  is the marine responses which give u a good laugh now and then but it still  gets repetitive after a while which is common in almost all RTS games.  Sure, Starcraft is an original game with new features that pleases people  just like the old C&C. some people ask for too much in a sequel and  when they find what they haven't been looking for, they disgrace the game.  We'll see what sequel is in store for Starcraft but for now, if you're a  serious fan of C&C's then pick up a copy of TS- you'll find an  intersting game with a whole bunch of new features including some old time  favs that would have remembered.