Rare just has an extraordinary knack at making great games. Banjo Kazooie was released in 1998 and has been considered a classic since, and I too must agree with this well deserved honor. Well, why do I find this game fantastic? Well, I'll explain that in my review.

First off let's talk about Banjo Kazooie's story. Banjo's sister Tooty is kidnapped by the wicked witch Gruntilda. Gruntilda has planned on swapping Tooty's beauty to her, but not if Banjo and his friend Kazooie can help it! Okay, seriously this story is pretty lame, but hey! It's a game. In My opinion, no matter how good the graphics are, or how great the story is, it all boils down to one thing. And that's gameplay. And Banjo Kazooie has fantastic gameplay.

In Banjo Kazooie you play as Banjo and...well...Kazooie, and Kazooie stays inside Banjo's backpack at all times, but she's not useless. They both work as a team and learn many moves, which brings us to our next character, Bottles. Bottles the mole helps you learn different moves to help you defeat Gruntilda and rescue Tooty. But do you just walk up to Gruntilda and save Tooty? Not at all, there are several items to collect to defeat Gruntilda. The most important one is jiggies, there are ten jiggies in each world and you need several items to collect them. Along the way Bottles teaches you to use certain items, such as eggs to shoot through Kazooie's mouth, or how to fly when you collect enough feathers. Another essential item to collect is mumbo tokens. Gruntilda has hidden mumbo tokens all around her enormous lair and if you collect enough you can visit the great shaman Mumbo Jumbo and he will transform you into different creatures to help you along your journey. So you have plenty to do in this game, I can guarantee that. Another essential item are music notes, in each world one hundred music notes are scattered all around and if you collect enough you can open new doors in Gruntilda's massive lair. But I do find it to become quite tedious sometimes. Why? You may ask. Because each time you leave and re-enter a world all the notes are still there, no matter how many you've collected. Let's say you've collected ninety-nine out of the hundred possible music notes to collect, well if you leave the world and re-enter, you would have to collect all ninety nine notes again, you couldn't go searching for the one music note you hadn't collected. And while yet this situation is highly unlikely, it's still annoying no matter how many notes you have to re-collect. Fortunately, if you don't care about collecting all one hundred music notes, you don't have to because the game automatically saves the amount you've collected.

There aren't too many moves to learn in Banjo Kazooie, and it didn't take me long to master them. And there aren't many control problems, actually the controls are almost perfect. But I did get frustrated with a feature that was not added in the game, I wish Banjo could hang on to ledges, there was many times in Clanker's Cavern where I could almost reach a ledge,  but it was just barely out of reach because I couldn't hang on to the ledge. While yet this wasn't too big of a deal, I think that feature could of made the game a little less frustrating. I was also very pleased with camera control, there are three angles to choose from except in a few rare areas and I found it easy to maneuver.

I told you this game was made in 1998, right? Well the graphics are terrific. The different atmospheres to this game make it twice more enjoyable. You can relax in broad daylight in Treasure Trove Cove, or wonder at dark in Mad Monster Mansion. And I thought the last world Click Clock Wood was absolutely brilliant, it's a forest and you collect jiggies in the four season's spring, summer, fall and winter. I especially loved Freezeezy Peak, and it was so much fun climbing the huge snowman.

I also loved the music in this game, each beat is catchy and it never got repetitive for me, and the sound effects were great as well...well the only complaint I could have is that there is no dialogue in the game, but I actually found the weird sounds from the characters kind of funny and I loved the insults between Kazooie and Bottles and Gruntilda's rhymes cracked me up, that's another reason I love this game, it has such a charm to it, not like some newer games, to many games have steered away from being innocent and charming, and this game has this quality.

What more can I say? This game is fun to play, it has great replay value, the music, sounds and the worlds all sound and look absolutely fantastic and the difficult final fight with Gruntilda at the end was indeed terrific as well. It took me thirty hours to complete (without a guide) and I had so much fun solving puzzles and this game can test your mind at certain times. I will admit I did need help online for a few jiggies, but the ending sequence makes the occasional frustrations all worthwhile, very satisfying if you ask me. I'm now very anxious to play Banjo Tooie, as it's been claimed to be even better than the original. Banjo Kazooie is highly recommended, this game is indeed a classic.