Really fast delivery. Takes a couple times to get the game to start but once its up it works and plays just fine :) i missed this game as a kid as well love playing itGolden eye, games that are coming out now owe their controls to golden eye. Based on the movie, the game is truly hard hiting gameplay action that is super fun. This game is a very great shooting game. One of the best shooting game of all time, golden eye has a great story, and goes along with the new 007 games that are coming out. Redifine the origin by playing this game if you haven't. Sure the graphics aren't that great but dude, its nitendo 64. They should remake this game and other classic 64 games for nitendo gamecube. If you still play 64 (god have mercy) you will also love perfect dark.
If your buying this game, for some reason you should add perfect dark. Same game play action, but for some reason I love "Perfect Dark" better. But thats me.....Ever since I purshased GOLDENEYE 007 on the old N64, I became highly addicted to it, like many other gamers around the world. I also have to thank this game as well, because it made me a hardcore James Bond fan.
This is the best first-person shooting game ever! Although dated, the detail of this game is amazing. There's over 14 levels of shooting! My favorite missions are the first level, the Silo mission, the Train mission, and the very last level.
Highly recommended game; it fuels the senses! If you like James Bond, or any type of video game, get it! Mostly all of you have.Goldeneye 007 is the best game for the Nintendo 64. Its an amazing game, and its still fun to play today. There was a game called Perfect Dark that was similar to this and came out later, but this is the far better game. Tons of great guns and gadgets are here, and the gameplay is awesome. Its not the best first person shooter ever(Halo for Xbox is), but its still one of the best. The graphics aren't the best ever right now, but at the time, in 1997 or so, they were real great. The music is good. It has a mysterious sound to it for some reason. This game has some of the best levels in any game, and it controls great. Multiplayer in this game is some of the most addictive ever. At the time it had the best multiplayer around. It might not now, since there are games like Halo and Diablo II, but like I said, it was the best at the time. There aren't really any negatives. All hail to the best game on N64, and one of the best games ever.It still boggles my mind how amazing this game is.  I cannot even think or read about it without getting giddy.  Another Zelda game just came out-- Skyward Sword-- and reviewers have been raving about its story and art work and graphics, etc, etc, etc. But it still doesn't compare to Ocarina of Time. Not even close. I have played many, many games, and there is no question, this is still the best game ever.  No one here is lying.  It deserves every one of those endless 5-stars. There is a massive chasm separating this game from every other game fighting for second place. No other game even comes close.
Why? In order of importance, least to greatest:
1) Graphics.  With consoles now like the 360 sporting games like Halo: Reach, and the PS3 with the Uncharted series, there is some serious competition for artwork and graphics.  But the Ocarina is still more mesmerizing.  Yes, the landscape does not extend forever into the distance, and yes, the polygons making up the characters are obvious, but the lines created are more pleasing than any Zelda since, and the colors blend and contrast perfectly.  From Mount Doom to lake Hylia, the imaginary world and its inhabitants draw you in, and within a few deceptively short hours, you cannot look away. "Graphics," as thought of today, with rocks crumbling and wood splintering when bullets strike, do not exist.  But they don't need to.  Even the most obbsessed lover of graphics will forget their obsession as they get lost in this games beautiful, open world.  If you love the huge open maps of Fable 2, or the sprawling cities of Assassin's Creed, you will love this.
2) Controls.  Games these days usually let you customize your button layout. This is not nescesarry with Ocarina of Time.  The N64 controller fits any hand perfectly, and the buttons you want are always right where you want them to be.  It is very easy to learn and (except for its sibling Majora's Mask), easier to use than any other game. No crazy button combos to memorize.  No wiggling of the joystick to perform random tasks.  Just simple, logical, purposeful, buttons.  Perhaps in the future it will change, but even after Skyward Sword, I, and many other people still prefer the buttons to the Wii mote. If you like playing Super Smash Brothers Brawl with a gamecube controller rather than the nunchuck, you will definetly prefer this. And unlike Mario64, the cammera follows you perfectly.
3) Puzzles.  This is not a sword hacking game, though there is enough to satisfy the first person shooters.  There are many very simple puzzles, and many frustratingly hard puzzles, but none so hard that you rip out the cartridge and throw it against the wall. And if you ever get stumped, there are plenty of side quests and mini games to help you upgrade your equipment or simply vent. The game takes time to figure out, even if that means just getting your bearings in a huge maze, but there is a simple satisfaction to moving on, especially when you restart and pass effortlessly through the dungeons you've already decrypted straight to the boss. If you liked Myst, you will love this game.
4)Story.  Most importantly story.  The first time I read the Narnia series, I was almost bored by its simplicity until the Last Battle, at which time I finally started to recognize the symbolism and see the depth between the lines.  The Ocarina of Time is likewise a simple story, but there is so much depth in the admittedly simple dialogue.  From the opening flames, to the closing courtyard, the game draws you in.  You become a part of Zelda's world.  You come to trust, love, despise, or hate almost every character in the game.  Even the chickens and dogs.  There is a great romance between Zelda and Link, hiding just beneath the surface.  Anything else? You want it, this game has it. Tension. Passion. Action. Adventure. Mystery. Comedy. Heroism. Deceit. Sacrifice.  Even ghosts, mummies, and various undead for all you horror fans.  By the time you finish the game, you have made real connections, for better or worse, with every character in the game.  And (spoiler alert) when Zelda turns and see's young Link walking up behind her in her garden, it is so maddeningly bittersweet you don't know whether to smile or break down and cry.  There is a certain Pale Rider feel, as you see everyone you've helped rejoicing at their freedom from the evil King Gannondorf, and yet knowing that your's is not the happily ever after you spent 7 years fighting for.  It is emotionally beautiful.  The perfect echo to the human heart.
I cannot stress how highly I reccomend this game.  It is 2012, and it is still listed as the greatest game of all time on every major site.  On Amazon, a new copy is currently selling for $700. It is far and away the best game ever made.  It is the best reason there is to still buy an N64.  If you still do not have this game, buy one now.  Even if you are part of the 0.01% who decides against it, you will easily make all your money back at resale.  But honestly, you will never sell it.  It will grow old on your shelf with honor and dignity as long as the silicone inside it lasts. And maybe even a bit thereafter.This is, to me, not only the greatest Zelda game in the series, but also the greatest game I've ever play.

Where to begin? There is so much in this game that makes it so fun. I absolutely love the side quests. Getting the Biggoron Sword is a race against time, but very rewarding considering you will posess an awesome huge sword that is twice as powerful as the Master Sword!

Another side quest I loved was completing the Gerudo Training Fortress to get the Ice arrows. This will force you to use all your skills and items, and will really put you to the test. I would even venture to say that the Gerudo training temple is more difficult than almost every other dungeon.

The ghost hunting side quest is very tough and takes practice and patience. Capture all 10 big poes roaming the field of hyrule and sell them to the strange ghost shop. You will get the 4th bottle (the hardest to get)

Even the mask salesman side quest is very interesting and unique. While many wouldn't bother to complete it, but the reward is the very cool and mysterious "Mask of Truth". Furthermore, this side quest is slightly more significant considering that the masks are the focal point in the follow up "Majoras' Mask".

But of course, my favorite side quest is the Skulltula side quest. It is very long and trying, but definitely worth it. This is another side quest many people wouldn't bother to complete, but completing it does have it's merits. For example: there is a very profitable rewards system in play. Destroy 10 Golden Skulltulas, and you get the adult wallet (holds 200 rupees). At 20, you get the stone of agony, which (when playing with a rumble pack inserted) will alert the player when a secret is nearby. At 30, get the Giant's Wallet and you can carry 500 rupees. At 40 you get Bombchus (I know, lame). At 50, get a piece of heart. After that, you get nothing more unless you manage to destroy all 100 golden skultullas. Doing this will result in you being able to get 200 rupees every time you visit the house of skultulla. Unlimited money is very cool, although a bit useless at that late a stage in the game.

The bosses are great. I won't go into great detail, but I've always loved the fight with Volvagia the lava dragon. There is something so classic and satisfying about watching Link defeat a lava dragon in a volcano with the master sword and hylian shield. Also, the final battle with Gannondorf is a real treat, and I never get tired of firing the magic arrows of light at him. The fight has a very epic quality to it, and the final battle against the horribly mutated Gannon has a nightmarish ambience to it.

The temples all have thier own awesome themes, both musically and environmentally. I always thought that the Forest Temple was incredibly imaginative and just stunning. It has the feel of something abandoned to the wild with overgrown vines overtaking the temple, and the open courtyard.

The music is top-notch even by today's standards. Koji Kondo really put together a masterpiece.

There is even a sweet element of sadness in Link's lost childhood, with the loss of his friendship to Saria. The moments where Shiek teaches you a song to warp to a temple always has a reference to a long lost friendship or the somewhat cruel passage of time.

The ability to customize adult Link's appearance is pretty unique and cool where you can choose with color tunic he wears, which sword and shield to wield.

In short, this is a wonderful game that will always have a special place in my heart.If you like racing games, Mario Kart 64 is among the best. The game is very simple to control, there's no bulls*** ranking system like in some of the newer games, and is actually a challenge. The game is stupidly fast, and will make you actually feel like you're racing. The game may be a bit dated, but it's fun as hell.Zelda OCT is an action-adventure RPG (there is debate about this, and some argue Zelda is it's own genre) with a combination of puzzles, fighting, and racing. Anyone who enjoys this genre will be enthralled by OCT (which you can play on several Nintendo platforms including the 64 and Gamecube). I still play Zelda OCT 10+ years later on the Gamecube from time to time, it's that good of a game.

Graphics:
For the time period, Zelda OCT on the 64 was beautiful and it has stood the test of time FAR better than other older games on consoles. It was the first truly 3D game for a console and set the standard for what video games should look like. If you grew up on newer systems and PC's, these graphics will look "blocky" to you, but the Gamecube has an OCT version with more refined graphics. Still, if you want a "retro" video game experience, the N64 Zelda OCT has graphics that are still enjoyable today.

Story:
The Zelda story is perfect for a video game, as the basic premise is always the same. Link, a young boy (or young man in newer games), is the reincarnated hero of time. He must battle the evil Ganon/Ganondorf to save Hyrule and princess Zelda by using the power of the Triforce.

Zelda OCT molds the "Zelda Story" into a fantastic tale that will take a least a few months to beat for your first time. The game's puzzles become progressively more difficult, culminating in the notoriously challenging dungeon - the Water Temple. The story combines several races (Hylians, Kokiri, Gerudo, Gorons, and Zora) seamlessly into one large kingdom. The enemies are varied and interesting as well. The Fantasy-Adventure story line is complex and intricate, complete with twists and shocks, time-travel, and genocide. Time affects the characters, and you see that not everyone loses when evil prevails. The story details are amazingly deep, to the point that pictures on someone's wall and the clothes they wear can fill in some back story of that character. I loved the detail and enjoyed filling in little pieces of the "back story" by talking to the NPCs and looking through the first person scope at their tattoos and clothes. The main story is also amazing, with the typical epic sword-clashing adventure ingeniously employed in the Zelda OCT universe. It's truly a master's greatest work.

Game Play:
The 64 had a simple controller for fun game play. There are only a few buttons, A, B, Z, C-pad, R1, L1, joystick, and the D-pad. The D-pad isn't needed in Zelda 64. This limited key selection was used to build an elegant fighting system around a few button combinations. Although B always attacks and A always does "an action", the genius of this system falls in the types of attacks you can do. Depending on the way your character is moving, and whether or not an item is targeted, Link can perform an impressive list of sword attacks (vertical cut, horizontal slash, diagonal slash, spin attack, thrust, and jump attacks). Despite the fact that B, Z, and the joystick are the only buttons that control these moves, Link is easy to control and I never had problems getting Link to perform the combination of moves I desired. Link could cut any sign into 5 unique pieces consistently - that is excellent controller response!

In addition to the perfect synchronization of Link to the game controls (something newer games like Dark Souls could take a lesson on) the game play is interesting and varied. Although the main fighting style will be slashing it up with your sword, each monster has a unique weakness that you can take advantage of with a variety of weapons. Link not only totes a one-handed sword and shield, but he also get's access to a sling shot and deku seeds, boomerang, hook shot, bow and arrows, bombs, deku sticks, deku nuts, and two impressive two-handed weapons: a hammer and a sword. These weapons can all be used in different ways to different effects at various times in the games.

Although the game would have been interesting enough with just those weapons, the game is further varied by magic. Link can wield three types of hand magic, as well as three types of magic arrows. This adds another level of monster fighting, where Link tries to find the weakness so he can move in and dice them up.

Apart from the impressive array of weapons, Link also packs a varied wardrobe. The stoic hero is far from interested in fashion (I mean, he runs around in a tunic and tights with a long cap, so he obviously doesn't care about his looks), so each piece has a specific use. You can mix and match boots and tunics for different benefits. Some bosses can only be beat with the right combination of clothing and shields, and figuring out how to use which items against a difficult boss is part of what makes Zelda OCT a great game.

Wait, there's still more to combat. Apart from the variety of moves and effects Link can muster with his impressive array of items, there is also horseback combat. You can ride around on Epona, a fierce, wild, mare who only listens to you, and shoot things with your bow and arrow. There are also mini games centered around the fun and challenging horseback combat.

Summary:
Zelda OCT is an excellent Action-Adventure RPG with an epic story line that seamlessly melds a complex kingdom and elegant fighting style into a grand video game. The characters are interesting, with even the most minor sentinels having a back story that you can uncover. The main story is fun to progress through, and you care about a lot of the characters you meet. The controls are excellent and perfectly integrated for fun, non-frustrating, game play. The bosses are challenging, requiring wit to uncover their weakness from the surroundings and circumstances before you can move in and damage them with your sword.

Final Note:
If the 64 is too retro for you, Zelda OCT has been remade for the Gamecube with newer graphics. However, the Gamecube controller does not integrate as seamlessly as the 64 (understandably) so you will miss out on a large part of what made Zelda 64 great. Additionally, there is a 3DS version, but I haven't played that so I really can't comment.This has been deemed the best-made game of all-time, and even though it's going on 15 years since its release, I can't disagree.

People complain that this game has no replay value, is too easy, and the graphics aren't good.

Well, I've revisited this game several times since it came out in 1998, and I haven't found a lack of replay value; there's so many sub-missions, I don't see how you can't think of this game as novel and new every time you replay it.

This game has a perfect balance of gameplay for first-time gamers and extra sub-missions for experienced ones. Think it's too easy? Obviously you haven't gotten all the heart pieces, found all the Skulltulas, earned all the jars, achieved the Biggoron sword, or caught the Hylian Loach. Any one of those tasks would create a challenge for anyone.

Complaining about the graphics? Sorry, the game isn't on XBOX or Playstation format. In 1998, this game had state-of-the-art graphics. As I am in the process of beating this game for a third time in 2011, I still don't find the graphics something to complain about.

This game excels in both gameplay and storyline. I find it hard to believe that anyone who has played at least half this game would say they "hate" such a masterpiece.It sometimes go out of wack when the clapping parts in a song show up(like you hit it but it doesn't register no matter how hard you smack it) and the game doesn't register you as singing onkey when you know for a fact you are but other than that it works great!Simply the best single player RPG i have ever played!!!! From start to finish you will not be dissapointed,,, Please if u get the chance go after majores mask its also a great game..mario kart 64 is the greatest video game in the universe a true classic the best of the best mario kart 64 rocksThis is one of the most fun multiplayer games you can play on the Nintendo 64.  The single player portion of the game is enjoyable too but the real fun is in the multiplayer and racing and battling your friends.  My friends and I logged countless hours with this game.  The only negative I have is the AI cheats something awful in the single player portion but aside from that it's a great game in every sense and a true classic.My game came in fantastic condition, I love playing it with my sis, but she just went off to college...Good working N64 game cartridge in good condition, same for the box. A great find of a timeless classic. AFAIAC this is the best Mario Kart.I love this game this is the coolest game ever brings back great memories from my childhood playing this game it never gets old to playMy weekends during high school revolved around playing this game with friends, yelling, and ingesting copious amounts of kool-aid and chips.  Maybe it's the nostalgia talking but even today this game is insanely fun to play.  Let's remember the N64.  Cartridge system, ahead of its time, player of some of the most memorable games of the past 30 years.  Mario Kart 64 is definitely one of those games.  Graphically, it was gorgeous in the 90's.  The colors are vibrant, character models are blocky(anti-aliasing wasn't cared about much back then), and the music freakin' rocked!  Game play is excellent with each racer having their own feel.  There are tons of power ups and weaponized items to truly jack up your competition which helps to create some of the most frustration last second finishes or losses probably ever.

For nostalgia's sake, get this game, pop it in, disregard that it looks blocky on a new TV, and enjoy the memories!It plays great and i look forward to beating my fance. We place bets on who will win and the looser has to do the chores.even with all the improvements in systems, games, graphics, etc., this one remains a classic in all sense of the word.This is my favorite of the series. My cousin and I used to play it all the time and it is how I remember. Hit detection is a little offI used to play this game all the time when I was a kid. I recently came into an N64 and just had to get it. Game works perfectly and it arrived quickly.This mario kart is my favorite of any in the series, and i am so glad i bought it because i have had so much funMario Kart 64 this game is fun you'll play this over and over. My favorite board is Mushroom  level it's easy that's why and you pick up items to used from keeping your opponent from taking the lead. Great buy.This has to be one of the best multiplayer games created for the Nintendo 64. This kind of game is great for all ages. I'm 18 years old and my friends and I still, to this day, continue to play Mario kart. It is a perfect racing game that has great sound effects and can keep you entertained for hours. You can play it by yourself, but to get the true experience of this game its best to play it with others. There is really no story line to the game, just a bunch of maps and characters to choose to race with. If you get bored of racing over and over again, there are several mini games, known as battle games, to choose from. Honestly, I like playing the battle games more than I like racing because its fun to take down your friends and family! So, overall I would definitely say get this game if you don't have it! It is a must buy for avid Nintendo 64 users!So much fun, It improves the 1st one so much, love the settings menu, the blood and physics are awesome.
If you get this game I would recommend the superpad 64 the one that looks like a modern controller. just because this game dose use the d-pad, crap get that controller anyway.
love this game.
One of the few games i know that you can shoot some ones neck and watch the blood squirt out, or blow limbs off....
love itBought Turok 2 just because I played and still have the original Turok. Game came in great condition and could play it instantly.Another neat turok game with crazier weapons, tougher enemies, better level design and more fun!Great game! I wish I had more time to play it ... its always been, and always will be one of my favorites.The price was reasonable, and the game shipped relatively quickly.  Most importantly it works.  What else could you ask for?I use to love this game and after purchasing this one I found I still do. The game was of quality and is still working just fine.Anyone who likes 007 would enjoy this game. great first person shooter! I will enjoy playing this game. The game play is a bit strange and hard to get use to because the aim and movement joysticks should be switched. The c pad on the N64 controller is hard to move with. Great game with practice!Enjoying playing this game with no complaints. Met my expectations and would do business again with this seller again.Turok 2 when I was younger as a kid was amazing, no parents told me I was not aloud to play it because they never actually played it themselves to know. The graphical content and gore was stunning to my 5 year old eyes. The first level took me forever to beat and I only beat it once. Plus I didn't have a controller pak. Then came the day I bought it again for my n64, nothing looks more sexy than Turok 2 in a green nintendo 64. The first time I ever beat it and it took as long as it did to beat a metroid game and there are only 6 levels. Weapons in old games to begin with were always amazing. I was always able to hold as many as they would let me. Such as doom, Turok, South park, Armorines, perfect dark, etc. Then new games came along and ruined everything that is great about Fps. Sure they have better graphics and frame rate. But they are all the same to be honest. Emulators sucks ass I don't care if its rgb or not. But just old games from dos to the beginning game cube fps's are all I got. But something about the way a n64 looks and the way the graphics look on it just make me love it so much. To me it's the best looking system and has the best looking games. Turok tops it all! Way ahead of its time it set the standard of what the n64 was capable of. Turok 2 is on pc and n64. The n64 game had stencil bits and made the game take a hit in frame rate. Stencil bit shadows were a new thing in 98 so iguana tried it out. In my honest opinion I wouldn't have even cared if the shadows were just the classic circle or just no shadows at all. Still it is stunning the n64 could handle what was thrown at it. The AI in the game was the most fascinating thing I have ever seen in a game and still is. They are smart and fight one another (really fun to watch) I found the game to run best in Hi-res-LB and looks the best as well. The weapons are still the coolest weapons in any game on the face of this planet and all of them are uniquely different. My favorite weapons are the Tek Bow, Shotgun, War-blade, Razor-wind, Cerebral bore, Plasma Rifle, Mag-60, Grenade launcher, the kick ass Charge Rifle (ONE OF THE BEST LOOKING WEAPONS), Firestorm Cannon (like a mini-gun but different and bad ass sounding), Nuke, Flamethrower (The first fire to actually show 3D even in almost all games on n64), and the torpedo Launcher (because you can go through water faster). Music has always been one of my favorite things when it comes to games because the music sets the mood and Turok 2 has the best music in any n64 game I have ever heard, sorry Perfect Dark your music and K7-Avenger are great to but Turok is to bad ass. Iguana seemed to like it so much and acclaim that, that the music is in all Turok games as well as Vexx and Armorines and more have some similar sound. The multiplayer in Turok 2 to me is absolutely stunning (I run that in low-res) and is just as good as Goldeneye, Perfect Dark, The world is not enough, and Turok Rage wars. Quite a few games ran on the Turok engine as well. Armorines (a amazing game! Uniquely different yet just as awesome), and South Park (not many liked this game but to me it's like a mixture of Doom+Turok=South park!... The multiplayer is good to just don't go above 2 players.) So you see Turok 2 was used in many things and is an amazing game. Once you play it you will wish iguana and acclaim still existed. They were the company that developed and distributed games with their say so. Making their games unique. Most hated their games but they never looked at the work they did. Extreme G2 for example had so much done to it that it to suffered frame rate and certain levels were unplayable in single player Grand Prix but in time trials they all ran smooth and helped with remembering everything. Extreme g2 to me is the best out of the series. I have almost every game by Acclaim and love every game (except turok 3, its a good run the first time but compared to dinosaur hunter and seeds of evil it is crap). So Turok 2 is amazing! if you want to try it get it now! on n64 or even on PC! You will love the game and see all the death animations and creative designs and levels! Turok is the greatest fps try them all! (your own risk for 3 but a good to the collection) Dinosaur Hunter 1 amazing smooth game great n64 game, the first fps on n64. Seeds Of Evil 2 Worthy sequel and is amazing in graphics and game play. Shadow Of Oblivion a okay game for the first run but great for the collection. Rage Wars the true sequel or attachment to Turok 2 and has great multiplayer and just as bad ass guns. Evolution fantastic remake of the first Turok starring Tal'set and has amazing weapons and is the biggest game of them all featuring over 14 chapters and has awesome multiplayer. Turok PC,360,ps3 I played it on 360, Runs on the Unreal Engine (which is bad ass) a great game with good weapons (Why I liked it is because I was quick and accurate, I run faster than slow ass call of duty and has worthy death animations like Turok 2 but not as good and not as good music, awesome multiplayer [if anyone is on] and a good campaign). These are the Turok games! Which started out as comics and became life and were playable. Get Turok 2 you will enjoy it! And bring a few friends over! It is A True Turok Game and is worth being played even in todays cliche fps trigger happy CoD fans.Anyone who owns a Nintendo 64 and does not own Mario Kart should just throw it away.
This is a classic N64 game that's a ton of fun
even today where there are games with better graphics.

The point of the game is simple: win the race by any means.
There are no plot twists, no complicated storylines.

It has all the classic Mario characters including
Mario, Luigi, Peach, Bowser, Wario, Toad, Yoshi and others.

Once you finish everything, there is a bonus option
where you can play all levels again but backwards!

Seriously, this game is an awesome classic
and a great addition to any and all N64 game collections.

Overall,
5/5This is the one game that I would play day in and day out, for more than a year.  The one game where I discovered something new almost every time I played.  It was the one game which brought me and my friends together religiously at least 3 or 4 times a week.  Somehow it just wouldn't die, no matter how hard we tried.
At first, it just seemed so standard and bland.  Playing muliplayer for the first time, I had problems finding guns and felt confused and bored running through the Temple level.  soon, somehow, something clicked, and me and my friends  ended up playing it for about 4 hours straight.  Towards the end of that introductory marathon Goldeneye session, we took our first stride out of the standard Deathmatch restriction- increasing my character's health to its highest limit and my friends fighting against me.  Thus we coined the "God" mode, and we played this variant to death in the coming months.
It didn't end there.  We had fests where we would do nothing but attack each other with punches.  We bought a bunch of video cable and conected three televisions together to form a sort of splitscreen, LAN-type mode, covering up other player's screens so we wouldn't know where the other players were.  We playedthe Team mode constantly, refining our knowledge of the levels and our marksmanship.  Fed up with auto-aiming, we turned it off and further honed our skills.  I began to be able to play the Complex level in my sleep.  Proximity mines soon became an addiction.  We pushed the game to its limits, learning that we could move the ammo boxes, shields, and guns around by shooting them, thus reworking their positions and creating large stockpiles in team games.  We began to use Gameshark to unlock multiplayer maps that weren't intended for the final version, as well as increasing the limits on two and three player maps to four players.  We discovered a code that turned one player invisible, and proceeded to do hunter-hunted scenarios over splitscreen.
Basically, it was the first game to really show limitless possibilities.  It was a revolution for first-person shooters, and so many have overlooked this fact.  It was the first to have targeting of individual body parts, over 20 weapons to choose from, realistic glass, shooting out of lights, and bullet holes, and for its time fairly revolutionary AI.  All in all, it was an experience that defined video games for me, and few if any have matched it with a similar addictive experience....BR>This game, more than any other for the Nintendo 64, is what will come to mind when most ppl think of the N64.  Mainly because, this was one of the first shooter games to require the gamer to use his brain to solve puzzles and get thru the nasty surprises the game will throw at you.  Not following the bloodlust of previous first shooter games like Doom, Heretic, Turok, etc. this game is in a class of its own.  It gives you objectives to complete however, unlike Perfect Dark it adds to the challenge by giving you deadly surprises that are NOT mentioned in the mission breifing, these will make at least restart a few levels over and over until you figure it out for yourself.  Its a much better game than any other First shooter Ive played since it stresses Stealthy behavior, and intelligence on the part of the player to succeed.
Granted it does not have the extras in the Multiplayer section that Perfect Dark has but it has an element of challenge that Perfect Dark will never have.Even for a Gamecube and PS2 owner, for me this is the game that started it all. And while old, Goldeneye is still exhilerating. I was stupid enough to trade in my Goldeneye copy for a nwer but NOT better game. Don't make the same mistake that I did, please! It is hard to get your hands on a good copy of Goldeneye these days. Protect your Goldeneye games! This game lives up perfectly to the movie, and for a 1997 game, the graphics and sound are excellent! Sure, Nightfire's fun, but it never revolutionized the gaming world like Goldeneye did. Goldeneye shoots TWINE and Agent Under Fire out of the sky. Nightfire can't even hold its ground against this solid and superb N64 title. In Goldeneye, you will encounter all of the characters and locations from the Goldeneye film, and the single player campaign holds its ground. But multiplayer is where the game really shines, and it is so much better than Timesplitters or Timesplitters 2 even. I have not played Goldeneye for over a year, but the music rings in my head and I have the levels memorized perfectly. Even if you worship your Perfect Dark copy, I believe that Goldeneye is better, and I have a strong debate on that. The bottom line is that Goldeneye is the BEST FPS EVER CREATED!! It boils down to this:if you own an N64, please play your Goldeneye copy or if you don't even know what this wonderful game is about, buy it now! Hey, all X-Box owners, Goldeneye is even better than Halo! There's no debate on that. Buy the game that started it all! My Rating:9.9!!Goldeneye lookes like just another shootem up game, but it is more than that. Goldeneye takes James Bond to the next level.
Pros: graphics are great
4 player is fun
lots of cheats to make the game even better
alot of characters to choose from
Cons: a little to easy to beat
no voices during game play
not alot of multiplayer levels
In the end Goldeneye is a great game and I recommend it to anyone.No doubt, the best Nentendo game ever created up till this day.  This game is better than all the Nentendo games for all it's systems.  It has the best multi player game ever for any system, and a A- single player game.  The only thing about the multiplayer game is that it could use a bit more weapons.  And the single player game is up there with Metal Gear Solid (the original).  It's game has lots of levels, and is very challenging, but in a good way.  It's cheat options are really hard to get, but once you do, it makes the game even more awsome.  So overall, you only need one word to describe this game: spectacular.This is a cool game.  You complete every mission on 00 agent and you unlock the 007 difficulty level.  You don't need a memory pak or card to play this game.Turok 2 is one of the best games ever made.

Graphics- by today's standards, terrible; then, fine. There is plenty of blood effects, from splatters to puddles (which don't really look like blood...). Gore is big also, with the ability to take the heads off of many creatures with a powerful gun or something.

Gameplay- it is amazing, the controls are odd, but is is a pioneer in the control scheme of today's FPS's. Once you get used to moving around, the game is just too much fun (even better once you get guns, rather than using a bow). There is good multiplayer too. It always feels good to leave an opponent screaming, ready to throw their controller when you get em with the weapon that scrambles their brains (yes, there is one of those, it locks on too...)

This is a game I would suggest to almost anyone (due to the amount of violence it is obviously not a kids game; I mean, look at the cover, the 2 is splattered blood).Turok 2: Seeds of Evil is the sequel to Turok Dinosaur Hunter that not only surpasses that game in it's greatness but is my most favorite game in the series of four games that came out on the N64. Everything that made the original such a great game to play was improved upon, especially in the way of graphics. With the expansion pak, graphics had 'almost' a Playstation 2 quality to them. It's something that showed with this game. It showed in the textures of the environments, the details of the architecture, lighting effects and other eye candy. The game was also bigger and better than any other game, with the exception of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, in it's 32 meg cartridge. As you've probably read in the courtesy review, it's been stated to have over 45 hours of playtime. While I don't know about that, personally, as I hadn't checked where I stand within the game..one thing I do know is it's one lengthy meaty game to sink your teeth(playtime) into.

While Turok 2: Seeds of Evil stood in the shadow of Rare's Goldeneye during it's release, Turok 2 still stands the test of time in terms of gameplay and is one game every Nintendo fan should add to their collection. If not for the fact that it had a killer storyline and an awesome arsenal of weapons to play with, then for the fact it was an absolute beauty of a game.This game is fun. The visuals are impressive and the guns are frickin' cool and some fun multi-player. Play this game because you deserve something special. Unless you're a Dragon Ball Z fan.I bought Mario Kart 64 for my nephew for his birthday. I played Mario Kart 64 when I was a little and I loved it. My nephew already has Mario Kart DS and he loves it. I figure that he will love this game too. Mario Kart 64 has many different levels in which you can race other Mario characters such as Luigi, Wario, Donkey Kong, Bowser and many others. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes any of the newer Mario Kart games.This game I grew up with and enjoy very much. I have been playing this game since I was 6 or 7 years old and games like these are very hard to come by right now and they cost a pretty penny brand new. What I have is a like new version but unforutantely I lost the manuel and the box is long gone to mine but maybe I will find it one day while I shop around the internet. I love this game and recommend this game to old school video game players and the like.If you grew up on N64 and Still love gaming: You will still love Mario Kart 64. Play This game.Though Wolfenstein 3-D and the Doom franchise had come and gone long before its time, Goldeneye for the Nintendo 64 grabbed the First Person Shooter genre and ran with it for what seemed like miles and miles. Forget a touchdown, this game ran the ball for fifteen hundred yards, with three interceptions and a dozen field goals. Nothing on a home console was even close to its league. And even today, in the afterglow of behemoths like Halo, Metroid Prime and a limitless roster of PC shooters, the game holds up surprisingly well considering its limitations.

It's difficult to call any game "perfect." No matter how original, how exciting, how breathtaking it may look, sound, play or feel, there remain a couple frustratingly overlooked areas, and Goldeneye is no exception. Most notably poor are the one or two levels which feature a limitless stockpile of enemy soldiers. No lie, I've memorized the layout of a base from start to finish, known there's nowhere these soldiers could be coming from, and watched as dozens and dozens miraculously appear from thin air to resume their fallen brothers' attack. It makes strategy an impossibility and frustrates the player to their wits' end. In addition, there's the small matter of dead or dying enemy soldiers who stand in the way. Every once in a while, an armed adversary will take a head shot and then stand, blankly staring, for several moments before slowly dropping to the floor. This wouldn't be such a bad thing if the other soldiers' bullets couldn't pass right through him. So you'll often find yourself firing into the chest of a dead man, a futile attempt to get at the soldiers behind him, all the while taking fire from those still breathing on the other side of his body. Despite my small misgivings however, 99% of this game plays flawlessly. The progression of difficulty is astounding, moving from the relatively easy early levels to a series of seemingly impassible stages near the cart's conclusion. And it's all done while walking that razor's edge between being excessively cheap and being overly giving. The player realises these missions are possible, even as he's watching Bond die for the twelfth time in as many minutes.

Add to all that three difficulty levels, cheats that must be unlocked with speed, precision and overall know-how, hidden stages and hidden characters. Not only do you have a legendary FPS, you've also found nearly limitless replay value. Goldeneye is more than just a very good game, it's the stuff legends are made of. It's a game you'll want to play with your grandkids years from now.

Hands down, the most attractive part about Bond's N64 debut, even today, is its controls. The Nintendo 64 controller was seemingly created exclusively for use with 007's repertoire, as every button is in precisely the right place for its function. It truly is the kind of thing that takes five minutes to learn and a lifetime to master. The center grip of the N64 controller seems to BECOME the handle of a silenced PP7, Bond's revolver of choice. The "Z" button is a perfect trigger, and if you've purchased a Rumble Pack you can even feel the weapon kick back when you fire. Strafing is done effortlessly with the right hand, as is crouching and adjusting the zoom of a sniper rifle. No control system has ever felt so immersive, so right. After the first level, you hardly recognize the controller is there, it's already become such an extension of your own body. I can't sing any higher a praise than that.

If you've seen the feature film of the same name, you'll notice some eerie similarities. Everything, from the writing on a wall in the city to the placement of the soldiers deep within a Russian bunker is precisely as it was seen on the silver screen. It's honestly unsettling, how well the level designers did their jobs. Ever wondered what was behind that last bathroom stall in the film? You'll get your chance to find the answer on the N64. It's an experience I can't really put into words, something I'd never seen before and haven't seen since. It's a level of perfectionism that has yet to be matched in a video game adaption.

Finally, there's the multiplayer aspect of 007. While the single-player mode is challenging, unique and groundbreaking, multiplayer is absolutely unreal. I had the good fortune of living in a large college dorm complex at the time this game was first released, and thus experienced more multiplayer Bond than I'd wish on anyone. There were literally lines leading into my room, just for the chance to grab one of our four controllers and get into the action. It was an addictive community event, whenever that little red light on the front of our N64 lit up. Truly something special. With multiple modes of play, a handful of playable levels, some hidden surprises and dozens of options, you were guaranteed to never play the same match twice, and it didn't take much for the lighthearted action to become a cold-hearted war. In a time and place where four player deathmatches are a no-brainer, it's hard to imagine a game that pioneered the field. Goldeneye blazed that path, and did so in style. It cleared out the weeds, flattened the hills, and paved the roads that Halo drives its way across today. Truly, the game was revolutionary and it still plays as such.

In short, Goldeneye is almost reason alone to own a Nintendo 64, even today. There's a charm about it that can't be described, a realism and authenticity that goes beyond the aging graphics and occasionally slow gameplay. It's got the look and feel of a legend, and that's exactly the word I'd use to describe it. While there are certainly flaws, this is a game you'll kick yourself for never owning in a few years, when it becomes increasingly difficult to track down.My N64, it acts like a rock sitting right there under my tv. I bought a total of 8 count em 8 games on this pathetic system (I have what about 60 for my computer). But this game made me believe that a good shooter could be made on consoles (although very few of the ports from pc to consoles are, usually the original games for the consoles are good.)Of those 8 games I have, this one is worth about 10. The makers of this game are geniuses and have spread that on to other games like the timesplitters series (if there is any game that will make me buy a gamecube, besides metroid prime, it IS timesplitters 2. It is a master peace that will be lived on in my memories and it will remain stuck in my damn cartrage slot of my forgotten n64, or it would be forgotten, if not for this gameThe names Bond, James Bond. Those five words mark the saying of probably on of the most famous fictional spy of all time. And, finally he came to the Nintendo 64. This game is by far the best game for any console. It kicks Resident Evil's butt all the way back to campcom's facility to teach them not to make such stupid looking games.GoldenEye became the steeple for how the Bond series was going to be and I'm glad that it was because for me, I could never get tired of this game because of it's awesome challenges, graphics, gameplay and of course the gore factor (very bloody game. Maybe a no for younger gamers, but for those of us older gamers, a definite).
Level after level, this game played almost to a T like the movie and you got to use all of Bond's weapons from his magnum to a bazooka, to grenades and plastic explosives and of course, the one hit kill Golden Gun.
This also had the perfect multi player vs mode in the history of the 64 system. Where else could you blow up 3 of your friends with a bazooka at the same time (if you were lucky enough to stumble upon them shooting it out with each other).
GoldenEye has never left my 64 rotation and again, I still love to play the multi player when my friends come over. I will again stress to those of us who are parents (like myself) that you should maybe think otherwise if you have some young gamers because it is very violent and very bloody. For those of you without that restriction, go wild and get this game. You won't be disappointed.I still get this game out. Everything is ideal, if they can't recreate this it will be a shame. N64 ruled in the old days, this and Mario were so amazingly fun, it was constant, you could play for months on end and still love it to death while finding something entirely new and exciting.Hands-down the best N64 game.  Goldeneye is very similar to the movie, like the Siberian dam mission, the satellite control facility, etc.. The graphics are the best I've seen for the N64, except for Zelda 64 (the first one).  The auto-aim feature and 4-person multiplayer make the game perfect for the common area of a dorm room.When I heard about turok 2 comming out I was so friggin phyced!
I wasn't dissapointed.
It was even bettter than the first.  It was
a little sci fi for me though.  And what was up with turok...
He looked so young.  I really didn't get the story.  If you get the cheats its even better!  Even more awsome weapons for you to
use.  You kick alien ass and take names!
This is one of my favorite sequals for a video game.
Its very original.  The game is frustrating without cheats but
its really fun and cool.  Its pretty much as violent as the
first one.
I love this game!
Great graphics
Great gameplay
Great story....Kina confused with turok bein young
OVER ALLITS A GREAT GAME!
WAY TO GO ACCLAIM!After playing "Turok: The Dinosaur Hunter" for ten minutes, I realized I had a great game at hand. It was like Mortal Kombat, except in a shooting-game. Blood everywhere, amazing enemies and weapons, and a good, good time. And I'll admit this; I don't actully play the Turok games. No, I'm sorry, I don't. It's not that their hard, or boring, but I don't play them...well, not without the cheats at least. As soon as I find out a new Turok game's coming, I get on the internet, go to Happypuppy.com, and find the Master Cheat. Yeah, it's pretty low, but it's fun to go in these blood-soaked shooter games. And the second one is no exception. I played this game without cheats for a few hours, made up my mind, and decided it was great, and would be even better with cheats.
Half an hour later, I came back with the Master cheat in my hand, which is "BEWAREOBLIVIONISATHAND", or, if you break it down, "BEWARE OBLIVION IS AT HAND". Within minutes, I had an amazing arsenal, all maps, invincibility, and more by my side. The weapons...well, let's just say the first Turok can't touch them. You have the usual knife and bow and arrow, pistol, shotgun, and the rest, but you now also have a nuke, pod layer (which lays bombs on the ground and they explode on contact), a machine gun (as the first had, but this one's much better), the Cerebrial Bore (the most gory weapon of all. It launches out a little ball, and it goes straight for the enemies head. When it gets there, it starts sucking and draining blood form their head, then, after 5 second, it explodes, and takes the enemies head with it), my personal favorite, the Razor Wind (a shield with sharp edges on it. You throw it and it cuts up all enemies in it's path, then come right back to you. It can chop off just about any limb you throw it at; the head, the legs, and the arms), and another physical weapon, the War Blade. The name says it all.
Overall, this game is a vast improvement, and is the best yet (but that might change as soon as I play "Evolution"). The graphics are great, awesome story, vast, detailed enviroments, and some hot blue chick that always pops up. What more could you ask for?Probably a top three game as far as popularity is concerned on the n64. Just a simple racing game with the original Mario cast, but a game that was a lot of fun. Multiplayer mode was even better as it made for real good fun competition amongst friends. Truly a classic game that is a must for n64 collection.I grew up with these games, So I was happy to find a Nintendo 64 at a thrift store and Im shopping online for the games. Mario Kart is a must have classic and my kids will have lots of fun. They are 8, 6 and 5 years.

I cant wait till it arrives in the mail.

No use buying the other used game systems or games that take cd. It will get scratched.  Kids cant scratch up cartridges. Its why I chose the Nintendo 64.Excellent game all around except one thing....
The game CHEATS.
You can be in first place and magically all the computer controlled racers somehow manage to catch up to you anyway.
Now, if you're in last place you literally have no chance of catching up.
Not fair.
Not cool.
That aside....if you develop your skills you'll still win.
After much practice I still managed to beat the game even though it blatantly cheats.

Great graphics.
Every character you love from the Mario universe.
I think Toad is my favorite, when he gets hit LOL. The noise he (it?) makes is hilarious.
The courses are inventive and enjoyable.
The music fits in perfectly.

Did I mention it cheats?
That's my only complaint.
Otherwise another five star winner from Nintendo.
Highly recommended.Mario Kart 64 is the true 3D Nintendo 64 sequel to Super Mario Kart. Since the characters wouldn't look so great on karts in 3D on the N64, the sprites are in 2D, which explains how they are fully detailed.

There are 16 courses you can race in, along with 4 courses for your average Battle Mode.

Now that there are 4 players, the 2-4 Player modes can be pretty fun, especially 2-Player since it has all the options from 1-Player Mode.

The item roster is slightly different from Super Mario Kart, but it's fun to use them all.

Overall, Mario Kart 64 is another game that defines 3D gaming on the Nintendo 64.The level's are great and there is a lot to do to save the world in the nick of time before some bad happen's. YOU as bond. As you go into the game they are other bad guy's are trying to kill you as you try to save the world. HEY, buy this game, you will have a time of you life and trying to stay alive. Hey, it true it is a good game to play by yourself or two people, Hey go buy the game and find out what I'am talking about OK. I play it over TEN time because it GREAT to get into. By the away they are FOUR bad guy's are after you so run, run, RUN for your life well, just in the game, are you lucky. Don't spoil yourself over this game I have. KEEP YOUR COOL IN THE GAME SO GOOD LUCKY. PS, Your going to need it. There are easy levels and hard levels and there are very hard level's. Get ready for a big adventure to save the world. There are Characters in the game just like the movie is that cool or what??With the Nintendo 64 beginning to slowly...okay, quickly drop off the gaming radar, it's time for gamers who bought the last of the Big N's cartridge systems to see if their investment was a good one. Is there even a reason to keep this system around anymore? Is there one game to give you an excuse to say to Playstation2 and X-Box and Gamecube owners, "I know it's an old system, but this game is the reason I still own it"? Yes, and that game is called "Golden Eye 007".
It's hard to believe that a game based off the best of the Pierce Brosnan "Bond" movies would become an undeniable classic. But that's exactly what "Golden Eye" is. Many first-person shooters try to overwhelm gamers with unbelievable graphics while offering no depth in gameplay, while others try to create complex game engines with passable graphics and end up only frustrating players. Thankfully, "Golden Eye" is the diamond in the rough. It takes a remarkably simple control scheme and graphics that were good for its time and combines them in an unbeatable combination. Moving Bond, James Bond is as easy as breathing, and the shooting system is just as simple. Even with the horrible N64 controller, a player can learn how to play "Golden Eye" on the first or second try. And its gameplay is so addictive because of the stunning level designs and adequate AI. Of course, because of the N64's difficult-to-program cartridge format, some things had to be sacrificed, like detailed textures and realistic AI responses to being shot. But the overall experience is enough to overlook such trivial matters.
Graphically, "Golden Eye 007" was a marvel to look at...when it was first released. Nowadays, when compared to games like "Metal Gear Solid 2" for the PS2 and "Dead or Alive 3" for the X-Box, "Golden Eye" looks like a SNES game. Because cartridges are limited in space, textures can be bland, character models look blocky, and detail is kept to a passable minimum. But anyone who doesn't care about graphics, as long as they are good enough and the gameplay is excellent, shouldn't have any trouble with "Golden Eye".
Soundwise, it's not the biggest strength of the game, but it's still good. Sounds like gunshots are remarkably well done - a player can tell what kind of gun he or an enemy is firing just by listening to it, at least to a certain extent. And voices, while limited to overdone grunts and questionable laughs, suit the game well. It would've been nice to hear full voiceovers for important characters, but the limitations of the cartridge format doesn't help this area much.
All in all, "Golden Eye" is undoubtedly a classic of modern gaming. While the N64 is arguably one of the worst Nintendo consoles to be released (alongside the horrendous Virtua Boy), it still had some incredible games that managed to sustain it until the Gamecube was announced. "Golden Eye" is not only the game that many FPS fans point to as their favorite game, but many non-FPS gamers also found it very enjoyable. While later great first-person shooters like the N64's "Perfect Dark" and the recent X-Box million-seller "Halo" presented excellet FPS action with updated graphics to boot, "Golden Eye" will forever be remembered as the first-person shoot for the masses.
If you need a reason to keep your N64, this is it!"Goldeneye 007", at first glance, looks like yet another installment into the tired and outdated "First-Person" shooter game genre. The big suprise is that it is so much more than a standard shooter or a bog standard movie translation.
In a word, "Goldeneye" is amazing. It takes full advantage of the 64 bit technology and delivers a smooth, fun, and challenging adventure. You assume the role of James Bond, the secret agent who needs no introduction. You run through various missions, which tie into the movie, and solve various problems and perform various tasks. What complicates things is the number of guards who are ready to kill you on sight. As expected, you have a number of weapons at your disposal, from the silenced pistol and machine gun, to the grenade launchers and high-powered explosives. The first-person perspective adds amazing realism to this game, with action and controls that are as smooth as James Bond's charm.
The graphics are phenominal, with smooth movements and amazing scenery. This game really makes you feel like you are living the adventures. The music is right out of a Bond movie, and adds a nice edge to the action. The controls, usually quite clunky on that horrible N64 controller, are easy to manage here. After a while it becomes like second nature.
For parents considering this game for their children, they should be aware of the violence. Much of the game is spent killing people, and the realism is striking. It is up to you, but this is an excellent game that can be quite addictive.This could be the best game of all time. What else needs to be said? If you haven't played this game before and still have a working N64 you need to pickup this game. If you haven't played the game you can also find it on the Wii Virtual Console and an upcoming remake for 3DS.What can I possibly say about this game that hasn't been said a million times.
Perfection.
Groundbreaking.
Beautiful.

Just some of the words that come to mind when I think of Zelda 64.
Zelda was my introduction to RPG's and what an introduction it was.

The good.
Everything.
Graphics, story, pacing, etc...
Insanely difficult in parts, I still can't beat the water temple without the walk through.
And Ganon in the painting still has to be one of the coolest boss battles of all time.

The bad?
Nothing.
One of the games that not only defined the N64 but a game that set the standard for excellence in RPG's.

One of the best...ever.
Highest recommendations.The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is the greatest game in the entire Legend of Zelda video game series.  Period.

'Nuff said.I'll keep this short, as most people have probably already played this, but when this game released in 1996 there was literally NOTHING like it. no fully 3d adventure with the calibur of Ocarina of Time existed in those days. the sheer quality of this game was unheardof in 1996. the graphics were smiply beautiful for their time, and the gameplay was near perfection.

You start the game as a young Kokiri boy living in the forest village with your friends and the old, wise Tree of Life. when darkness strikes your small corner of the world its up to you to delve into the tree and find out whats truly hurting and potentially killing him. after solving the situation in your home a much broader world of discovery and adventure opens up to you, and its up to you to save Hyrule.

after completing 3 childhood dungeons and playing the song of time in the temple of time, you find yourself frozen in a time warp for 7 years, waking up at age 18 (i believe) waking up in adulthood you make your way across 5 more dungeons before conquering the final fortress, and facing one desperate final stand from the evil thats been behind all the trouble from the start.

Truly epic in every way, considering the year it was released. Ocarina of Time is still the greatest game ever created in my opinion.

10/10This game may not have a lot of flashy features like sound, or simulant multiplayer, but who cares? I bought this game in 1998 and I still play it. I recommend it to anyone who likes first-person-shooters, or a James Bond fan.If you like racing games that are unique, this is for you. You can race by yourself, or with a friend. Not only that, but you can also challenge your friends in battle mode with some really fun arenas. If your more of a solo player like me, don't worry, there are four different tournaments that you can play.

You can even use different items either to slow down the other racers, or to help you pass them up. Of course every item has it's own effects, there are a few that are hard to get. That's because they're special, learn how to use them, and the competition will be eating your dust.

And last, but far from least, there is a special mode you can unlock for an even bigger challenge. Yeah, this game will keep you busy no matter how you play. It's definately a must-have, order it while you can.After checking GameSpot's (author's note: this was originally posted exclusively on GameSpot.com) and a few user reviews, I absolutely had to throw my two cents in. I couldn't help but laugh when I read the introduction of "Even with all its bells and whistles, Mario Kart 64 is very likely to disappoint you after about a week."

When I picked up this game initially, my thoughts were "SWEET! A new Super Mario Kart!" I, unfortunately, never had an SNES of my own, so my fixes came in the form of time at my friend's house.

This game is absolutely spectacular in every way. Yes, I do feel that it could benefit from maybe a higher difficulty level and there is also the fact that it's possible to clinch a Gold medal in a circuit (4 races) after finishing in the top spot in each of the first three races. However, other than these minor spots, I find it to be flawless. Everything from the graphics to the sound to the features are great. There is also a great amount of multiplayer available in this, with not only the up to four player split-screen, but the track ghosts as well. Track ghosts are saved data of your best race (single player only) on a course. The game saves not only your time but your entire race. When you race against your ghost, you can actually compare yourself second-by-second on the tracks and this also helps you to analyze spots and what you did to help you become a better racer.

The items are what really make multiplayer fun, though. I've had many a time where I have something such as a ghost (which lets you steal and item and makes you invisible/invincible) while my friend had a lightning bolt (shrinks all opponents) and it's a quick reaction race to see who can get their item deployed first. To me, however, there is nothing more satisfying than hitting your opponent (especially if it's a friend instead of the computer) with a green shell (a shell that fires straight out, as opposed to the red homing shells) as he's about to cross the finish line to win, not just the race, but the circuit as well. And, yes, I actually did that to a friend of mine. Talk about bragging rights.

Up to this point, I have kept (or at least tried to keep) retro-rating out of this review and I was considering dropping one of the five rankings to a 9 because I'm stingy with giving out perfect 10's. If I had rated this game when it first came out, it would probably be rated somewhere around 9.7 to 9.9. However, there is one reason, and one reason only, that I still own my N64 -- and that is to play Mario Kart 64 ... a decade later. (Note: I can't even say that about Zelda: OoT or GoldenEye.) That, in itself, I think warrants the move up to the perfect 10 rating. ... I guess this pretty much means that I'll have to give Super Mario Kart a 10 as well. I guess we'll see when I finally get it on Virtual Console. (For those of you who ask "Virtual Console? Why" Read: paragraph 2.)

Overall: 10
Gameplay: 10
Graphics: 10
Sound: 10
Value: 10
Tilt: 10This game can keep you busy all day with excitement and fun! It's even better when you play with other people. It's great whether your playing with your friends or family. Challenge them with different characters and roads. This game is for anyone, any age, they will enjoy it, I guarantee you will too!It has spawned such classic levels (as I recall) such as Luigi's Circuit, Moo Moo Farm, Frappe's Snowland, Toad's Turnpike, Koopa Troopa Beach, Banshee Highway, Bowser's (infamous) Castle, Wario's Stadium and the ridiculously long and bright track, Rainbow Road, which has spawned at LEAST 5 different versions throughout the series!

My all-time favorite level in the game is actually Sherbet Land. It's filled with ice and is just fun to cruise through! And the penguins that you can run into are so cute!

The playable characters are your basic eight: Mario (balance), Luigi (balanced), Princess Peach (lightweight), Toad (lightweight), Yoshi (advanced), Donkey Kong (heavyweight), Wario (heavyweight) and Bowser (the heavi"est"weight).

This game is very, VERY easy to just pick up and play with friends. The controls are simple as all get out and the characters look pretty cool, for a N64 game. The sounds they make are cool too!

If you want something that 4 guys (and/or girls) can enjoy, this is the right move!

* PROS *
-Bright, colorful boards.
-Addicting sound effects.
-Semi-interesting characters.
-Fun tracks.
-4-Way BATTLE. Nuff said.
-8 Semi-unique characters

* CONS *
-Sound comes through in 1-player or 2-player mode, but fails to when playing with 2 or 3 friends
-16 levels just isn't enough to satisfy the average gamer's thirst
-The music can be annoying/nauseating to some
-When you're in 1st, you get crappy items. When you're last, you get the best ones, usually landing you in 1st/2nd/3rd

Cons aside, I spent countless hours with friends that I cherished playing this game. It will bring smiles to your faces for months to come. If you like this and own a Nintendo DS or a DS Lite (shame on ALL of you who don't!), then I totally recommend Mario Kart DS also. More levels and more mayhem. Did I mention even more characters?!

4.5 stars.mario kart 64 is by far the best n64 game

if you want non-violent racing with all the nintendo characters for a good price- look no further

also if you like mario kart 64, you might like

mario kart ds

mario kart super curcuit

mario kart snesThis game has plenty of levels weapons and it has challenging gameplay with a pretty good multi-player (but i wish u could face computers in the multi-player) good graphics great play control and sound get this game if u don't already have Perfect Darkyes this game has VERY good game play it has 18 levels to unlock and 2 secret levels and very good you will wanna play this game over and over be cuz of all the secrets u can find if use a game shark u can get all of the old beta stuff and this game is a MUST HAVE the world is not enough 64 was good but its game play died it only has 14 levels and twine was not very good maybe voice was in it but IT IS NOT BETTER THEN GOLDENEYE 007 U MUST BUY THIS GAME ITS A JAMES BOND CLASSIC THIS GAME IS ALWAYS TO GET IT AND PUT IT IN YOUR 64 AND TURN UP THE HEAT but twines mutl player make u get sick of the game goldeneye may have bad mutl player but its better twine has arond 123 guys to pick from for mutlJust another reason why the 64 is a pinnacle of my generation.  Its challenging, has a great story, and can make you angry.  But thats what the best video games do! :-)  Definitely a must have.This microphone is unbelievably good for what it is. It's not studio-quality, but you simply will not find a mic this good for less than $50. The only problem I had with it at all was trying to get it on a mic stand (since it doesn't have a screw) but even that wasn't hard to overcome.I just bought this game a few weeks ago,and it's awesome. It just has that "This is going to be an epic game" from the get go. It has great graphics,even to this day.

First of all,this is an Action Adventure,not a RPG/Role Playing Game.

Next,I recommend buying the Strategy Guide. This game is what gamers call "Nintendo Hard". It's a challenging game,with quite a number of puzzle parts.

Anyway,buy it if you have a 64,or Virtual Console it if you have a Wii.Wassup, fellow gamerz!  Nubs.  Lulz.

My parents just bought me "The Legend of Zeldo: Collector's Edition" for my 14th birthday. It features this "Legend of Zeldo: Oracana of Time" game. I enjoyed this game very much...even tho the graphics suck! I will give you some of my thoughts now!

My favorite part was when the main character, Link, pulls the Supreme Sword from the stone in the iceberg temple. Oh man! Glammondwarf (the villain) was so cool! He snuck into the Secret Realm behind Link and stole the Trueforce of Strength!!  Pwned!

The Prince Zeldo person was really weird.  He/she was a tranny who turned into some guy named Shaieke, who kept stalking Link on his journey. Then he/she would change back into an elf girl in a dress. What a creep!  But Zeldo had the Trueforce of Smartness, so I guess that character was okay. Zeldo had this tall white-haired ninja lady named Inca as a bodyguard. Inca might have been a man too though...I'm not sure.  She looked kinda like my aunt Helga.

The Link character was really cool!  Link wears white tights, a green toga, and had a grappling hook device! He also has this little firefly thing called Navely that follows him around! You begin the game playing Link's little kid brother, which kinda sucked.  I can't pwn Goombas with a little midget (Goombas are these big skeleton guys).  I think the kid brother is supposed be Peter Pan, after he killed Captain Hook and left Neverland (maybe they have another game about that part).

But later you get to play Link, who is an adult elf with a pointy nose. He has the Trueforce of Braveness, so that means he is very brave. He can throw dynamites into walls to blow them up and reveal secret buried treasures! I wonder if the treasures were hidden by magic pirates?  Later on, Link gets the Bassoon of Time and can play it to make it snow! I think Link is kinda mentally handicapped though because he never talks. He just goes "Ugh! Hiyah! AUGHHHHHH!" and stuff.
I think he might be a cannibal (or vampire) too, because he eats hearts to gain health. There is a really annoying beeping sound that reminds you when it's time to feed.

You pick up these little colored diamond things called rublees that you can use to buy stuff with. But they look really big, so I wonder how Link can carry so many in his pockets? And if you don't pick the rublees up soon enough, they begin flashing and disappear! I guess they're like...big holograms or something, like in Star Wars.  Why are there so many rublees hidden in the grass and under rocks? I really wish I could mow my parents lawn in real life and find money like that.

There are these fish people named Zurros. They have this giant jellyfish named Mr. Jabba Jabba and you have to go into his stomach to retrieve an ugly little talking fish-man! I think it was the Zurro king's pet and he lost it. But you have to carry it all around Mr. Jabba Jabba's stomach, so it's kinda annoying.

Then there are these big rock guys called Gordos that like to roll down mountains! They are my favorites because they live in this mountain called Doom Mountain. It explodes like a volcano and tries to kill you!  Holy ****!

That evil Glammondwarf guy is a member of the Garundo thieves. They are a bunch of ginger women that live on a beach. But they don't have any men in their race, so I don't understand how there are so many Garundos? Maybe some of them are trannies, like Zeldo.  I think Glammondwarf might be one. He kinda sounds like a drag queen when he laughs.

Sooooo all of these people live in this magical land called Hirole with a bunch of weird cartoon characters. I think it's supposed to be kinda like Toon Town from Roger Rabbit. It's such a huge place! It takes forever to ride across it on Link's horse, Ramona! That's right! You get a horse! Link steals it from Mario and Luigi at some ranch. So I guess Link is kinda a thief. Maybe he's really one of those Garundo thieves? He does kinda look like a girl.  But he's not a ginger, so I'm not sure.

Aaaanyway....play this Bassoon of Time game! It is full of so much WIN!  I hope I didn't give too much of it away!  Lulz!!11one  XD

-w00tkid95-The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is really awesome, but how awesome? Is it the best of the Legend of Zelda series so far? Oh, undeniably, but that is not the point. My point is that it was the best game for the Nintendo 64, with Super Mario 64 and its direct sequel, Majora's Mask in a second place draw. It shows how the franchise began. Link sets off on a journey to save Hyrule from the evil Ganondorf for the first time. He meets Princess Zelda on the way, and when she flees from Ganondorf, she leaves the Legendary Ocarina of Time in Link's possession. He uses it to travel through seven years with the help of the Master Sword. The graphics were neat for the time, the storyline was really exciting, and there is a lot of stuff to collect. The dungeons were challenging, and the boss fights are neat. If you are a fan of Nintendo, please pick this up. You will be glad you did.This is the best racing game i've ever played and the most funest. The game has a cool unique to a racing game. it is tons of fun, and you can play either Mario, Luigi, Peach (The Princess), Toad, Yoshi, Bowser(King Koopa) & Donkey Kong. There are three types of trophies you can recieve, either the Mushroom trophy, Flower Trophy, Star Trophy and A Special Trophy. Cool Hu. Well this game was tons of fun i recomend it to everyone. Peace Out

If you liked this game then check out all of the Mario Games.This game is an old racing game but heck,its better then half of them out now. With all the crazy weapons,it can keep you goin awile. This game is really worth it if u have a nintendo 64.

This is still 1 of my favorite games.I came across this game in 1999 and immediately recognized it from the cartoon from back in the 80's.  I played it just to try it and I wound up getting so addicted I had to buy it for my N64.  I would stay up til all hours playing it.  It's rare for a game to hook me like that but this is one that is challenging yet fun so you can't help but say "okay I'ma try one more time then I'm turning it off" and still be playing a couple of hours later.
The Water Temple was the biggest pain for me because I tend to rush into things and wouldn't do things right as far as the puzzles went.  I loved the Forest Temple as a kid.  The weapons are easy to use and play a role in a fair share of what you do.  The boomerang has a few uses such as getting items that are out of reach, hitting switches, and killing enemies.  The ones I loved were bombs except when I got too close to them.  lol
I don't remember much else about the game since it's been a while since I had time to play it.  I do know it took me quite a while before I managed to get some things such as all the Poes and Golden Skulltulas but no matter how many times I play this game it doesn't lose its appeal.  Like I said, it's challenging but not so hard that you throw the controller down in frustration and give up.
It's the second easiest game of the three Zelda's I've played.  Twilight Princess, although very in depth, was easy and Majora's Mask was the hardest but only because I kept running out of time when doing certain tasks.  Ganon was hard for me to kill at first but I think now that I've played it enough and therefore fought him enough I know what to expect and I can now anticipate what he's going to do and react accordingly.
All in all, I recommend this game even if the system it was made for is pretty much a thing of the past.This and Super Mario 64 are the best games for this console. Now this was the first Zelda game I ever played, and it's gold cartridge. Now, this is a zelda game that's good to bring in the newcomer (or Link to the Past). This game is not too difficult, but difficult enough. The story is one of the best stories I've seen in a video game, very original. The one thing about this game I don't like are the water dungeons. It's a trend in Zelda games to make the levels that involve water the hardest part in the game, but it is passable.

In conclusion, good game for newcomer and the best storyline to keep you hooked on the series!This is one of the best and my personal favorites from the Zelda franchise! The story was fantastic, the gameplay was amazing for the time, even compared to todays gaming this game showed less problems or glitches.

There was hardly any serious problems with this game. The playtime was a very good length and it offered a some side quests to do. Each dungeon was well constructed and were not something you walk in and leave unhappy. Some parts were frustrating sure but when is a game just so easy and you feel happy beating it?

Puzzles in this game were I suppose challenging for  child but they were not impossible. This is a great game for all ages and a great buy as well.I remember I was 6, and I had just gotten a Nintendo 64. At such a young age most of the games out were too complicated for me and I had to find something I could understand. Enter Mario Kart 64. This game is pure and simple, you pick a character and race with seven other famous Nintendo stars in 16 detailed (for N64, anyway) stages. This was one of the N64's first games, so for me it turned the system into a classic which I still play today.

  This game was much better than Super Mario Kart, and much better than Double Dash. In this game you can choose from 50cc - 150cc (which isn't much), and depending on your speed, this could be very boring, or the ride of your life. I mean seriously, who wouldn't want to speed down Yoshi Valley at 200 mph? For its time in '96, this game was amazing, and I still play it today. I am 15 now, so it has an enormous replay value. And the only stage I don't like is Banshee Boardwalk.

  If you have a Nintendo 64 (which not many people do), then buy this NOW!This game is pretty darn easy.  I beat most of the tracks with only a rental.  It's not near as tough as the SNES version.  Heck, the SNES version of Rainbow Road had no walls around the track and the track was thin to boot.  Rainbow Road is a cakewalk on this one.  Wide the whole way with walls all around.  Too darn easy.  However, there is a monster shortcut that's very dangerous to go for if you want to make things interesting.

Even though it was too easy, I bought the game anyway.  It's fun to beat the heck out of these computer controlled suckers.  Plus I really like the game's ending.

There is one hard level, the one with all of the traffic in the extra mode.  It can be very frustrating if you make a mistake, because you get run over again and again and again.  It usually takes away any hope of recovery.

The most significant improvement over the SNES version is the time trial mode.  You can race a ghost of yourself after you've already completed the course.  The ghost is only a recording of your previous performance, but it gives you a lot more motivation to beat your old time, I assure you.

I've never been into multiplayer modes, but if you're into that kind of thing, you'll REALLY love this game.  Some multiplayer matches can go on for a LONG time, since the levels are so well-designed.This was the first 'Kart' game quite like this.. there isn't any 'Kart' game like this either outside of the Mario franchise. If you think you can find a better Karting game out there, I'd like to see you find it and show me, because from my finds and plays, this is the only game that is worth playing. From DK to Bowser, Peach to Toad, this game has most of the characters that have been involved with Mario in some way. The graphics are great for its time, the sound is fun, the worlds are colorful, the idea is great. Who wouldn't like this game- at ANY age? I'm not sure, but if you don't, you amy need to see a doctor. This is the best Kart game ever, and the best Mario Kart game ever.I love all the Mario Kart games, this one has some of the coolest tracks.  Yoshi Valley is the best track I've ever played and the graphics are pretty good too.  Small selection of characters (if you've got the one for Gamecube) but still a blast.  Awesome 1 player or multiplayer game, a must have for parties!  Good anytime and that's hard to find.Mario Kart 64 is, without a doubt, one of the best games ever made for the Nintendo 64 (or any other system). Even today, 8 years after its original release, Mario Kart 64 is still amazingly fun. The controls are PERFECT- and I do mean perfect. The first time you go power sliding around a sharp turn, you'll see what I mean. The game is perfectly balanced- each character has strengths and weaknesses. Your skill determines if you come in first- not because you picked the best character. Oh, and I haven't even spoken about the brilliant course design. Every course has shortcuts, and special features, making them truely unique. The placement of the powerups is wonderful. And the multiplayer... Oh the multiplayer! One word: brilliant. Playing with your friends is exciting, competetive, and will have you laughing like crazy. This is what multiplayer gaming is all about. If the game does have one weakness, it is the graphics; being 8 years old, Mario Kart 64 doesn't stack up well against today's crop of games in terms of visuals. But when you're having this much fun with a game, do the graphics matter? No way!! Even if you own the Gamecube version of Mario Kart, you still owe it to yourself to pick up a copy of this timeless classic.This is one of the best games out for the N64.  The races and tournaments themselves are challenging and extremely fun.  The many characters that you can unlock all have their own abilities and everything else to set them aside.  The tracks are not repetitive and give each race a fresh new layer of fun.
Multi-player is an even better experience...Who could imagine that battles with cars and turtle shells would actually be fun?  Well it is fun and will keep you playing for hours on end.  This game will make your friends ask if they can come over and play.  A sure hit with a gamer of any age.Like many other people, I absolutely adore racing games and the Mario games.  Then I saw this come out.  It was perfect!  It was a racing game with the characters from the Super Mario series!  I was so excited to play it.  My friends and I played it all night.  It was so addicting.  In fact, I still play this game today.Mario Kart64 is one of the more entertaining video games of all times. It is suitable for all ages and can be enjoyed and mastered by the young and old. 4-player simultaneous play with a selection of 8 classic Mario characters and 4 different difficulties (beat all curcuits in 3rd or better to earn Extra Mode) and 16 levels of play, each level containing it's own unique obstacles and course.Cool game. But I think Toad is the fastest of the crew. I used
to be an expert at it. I was even born an expert....For Nintendo, some of their most popular games have been revised over and over again. In the case of the Nintendo 64, the case has happened to itself too. The 1997 Mario Kart 64 game is no acception. The starting flag proves that the light is worth checking out.
In this game, you play any of eight characters in 16 traditional courses and 4 battle zones. Choose from Mario, Yoshi, Wario, Peach, Luigi, Toad, Donkey Kong, and Bowser. The graphics are a bit more intact than the other racing games that came later for the system. Although it might try to drown you out a little bit at a time, when you complete the four racing cups quickly. Luckily, the game truly makes up for it in the Vs. mode, where you are head-to-head n a battle with up to four players in the race.
Mario Kart is absolutely worth checking out for the Nintendo 64, despite the fact the Nintendo 64 has no more new games for the system. If you buy it only for yourself, your better off bringing in a partner for the ride.This is an excellent game! Once you start playing you cannot stop until you actually beat it! This has averythingn a GOOD game should have: Excellent graphics, excellent gameplay, good
2-player mode, and good sound. The only flaw in this game is... well... their are no flaws, this game gets a SOLID 5. Thanks for reading my review. Happy Gaming. P.S. Don't buy Pokemon Snap... Thanks!Mario Kart 64, the sequel to the first Mario Kart game on the SNES is great. Nintendo got rid of some of the things that made the SNES title so much fun, but added a lot too. The gameplay is much more enhanced, the characters look much better and the individual go-karts are very realistic.
Like the SNES version, this game includes 3 modes of play: GP (Grand Prix), Battle, and Time Trial. In GP you choose one of 8 characters: Mario, Luigi, Peach, Toad, Wario, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, and Bowser in a large variety of courses in the Mushroom Cup, Flower Cup Star Cup, or Special Cup (which you unlike by getting gold trophies in each of the 3 basic courses) in 50cc, 100cc, or 150cc mode. 50cc is the easiest, but in 100cc and 150cc the computer gets much faster and more challenging. There are several items you can collect by driving through the question mark boxes which help you during each race. Lightning bolts (the rarest item to get) makes all of the other opponents small, mushrooms give you a speed burst, banana peels make one of your opponents crash if they slip on it, red shells are used to shoot directly at an opponent to get them off course, and green shells keep bouncing off the walls until it hits one of the racers. Unlike the SNES Mairo Kart game, there are several objects you need to avoid to stay on course. In different races there are trucks and cars that will make you crash if you hit them, snowmen that will blow up if you hit them, and many other obstacles in different courses.
In Battle mode you and up to 3 others choose one of the 8 characters. You drive around a course trying to pop each other's 3 balloons. You can pop their balloons by shooting red or green shells at them or throwing banana peels at them to make them slip. You can also use the other items to avoid being hit by them. Once all of your balloons are popped you become a bomb which you can drive around the course trying to run in to the other players. This mode is a lot of fun, especially if you get tired of continually playing Grand Prix mode.
In Time Trial mode you race in any of 15+ courses and try to set records for each lap and/or race.
The controls for Mario Kart 64 are very simple and easy to master, and the music and sound effects are great as well.
If you want a great racing game for your N64, I highly recommend that you check out Mario Kart 64.My favorite part of this game is the battle mode.  My friend showed me all the tricks he has learned from playing it.  Like where to set traps and other stuff.  The one player mode is fun too.I'm just sick of reading reviews that don't show mario kart of what it really did but i'll tell you what it really did.
Mario Kart was one of the first games out for nintendo and the first game that started series of mario games for n64.  Such as Mario party 1,2, and 3 also adventure games like super mario 64 etc.  and many more to come.
Mario Kart was so good because the tracks were so detailed yet not so detailed that the whole game is messed up because of it.  And it's just so addicting because it's easy gameplay.  And you cant say nutin bad about it.
So if your looking for a good game for n64 that was better than any other mario game in history besides melee.  This is the game.If you liked Mario Kart for the Super Nintendo, then you will love Mario Kart 64.
This is an amazing game. One of the best for the 64. If you have competition around you can take up hours of play time.
I have played this game almost as much as I have Golden Eye 64, but not quite as much. If you are looking for a good quality game with a very high replay value then this is a great game to check out.
Doesn't matter if you are 10 or 70 you can get into this game. The multi-player makes things a little bit more interesting. The battle mode is the best feature if you have equal level competition.Truly a classic. This game was one of the first I got for the N64, and it is one of my favorites today. As it gives graphics that were hardly ever seen in the early N64 days, it also has gameplay almost unmatched by the games of it's era. The sound is moderate, but sound isn't a very big facter in deciding the rating of the game.
  A followup on the early SNES version that was also a hit, this game was certainly watched before it's release date, as it stormed into the N64 world and took many fans (as you can see from it's very high review in many chances) right away. It was considered as a very high class game then, and now too. Many of the N64 owners today have one in their hands, and many of those have played the game for over 24 hrs.
  This game has wonderful graphics and sound for the era that it was made in. The size of a typical game back then, but with the technical advancements of some of the games today. The graphics are very good, as you can distinguish all characters and objects faster than immediatly. The game also shows no slow down rate no matter how many characters or items are on the screen at the same time.  The sound is entertaining for a while, and it is different for almost all of the 16 courses, showing wonderful compositions with goofy sound added noises at parts.
  The gameplay is also great. You may pick one of 8 characters to race with. On a small go - cart, you must race on one of the 16 courses and try to get in first. There are many modes. You can race with a group of 8 racers in a grand prix mode, where you may race a total of 4 races and accumulate points. A vs. mode race will put you against a friend or 2 (or 3) in a single race. There is also a battle mode, which will put you against 1 to 3 other players where the last one alive wins.
  The items in the game play a big part. Some will boost your speed, while some are used to slow down enemies. Some steal enemies items, and some let you do things such as go invincible or invisible. Most of the however, are used to smash your opponents into the air and slow them down. In battle, it will be used as one of 3 hits to destroy the enemy.
  The characters are the typical mario game characters:  Mario, Luigi, Peach, Toad, Yoshi, Wario, DK, and Bowser. They should all come in handy sometime in the game, and it should be fun to test them all.
  OVerall, this game is great for having fun. I reccommend it to any one. Great for technology too. This game is right for you.Mario Kart on the n64 is an extremly well made game. when one person plays the game for the first time the controls are easy and you don't nead to worry about changing gears. After you get better you can move on to harder levels of play. once you beat the game on 150cc (hardest level) you can race al track in mirror mode (all tracks have opposite turns then their original tracks). the ads more replay value because the game in a sence has new tracks. All the tracks are unique and have varied difficulty levels. they are also well designed.
The graphics in mario kart are bright simple and full of color. the music in the game is not very good but it does not mater because of the great sound effects provided by the characters.
As with all great n64 games this one accells in the multiplayer department. It will appeal to people of all ages. you can choose from 3 different multiplayer modes battle championship single race. The most fun out of all of those is batlle because you go around getting items then try to hit your friends with any item you get. if you hit your'e oponent they'll lose a balloon they have 3 ballons.
This is a party game i would recommend over any mario party game and definitly over didy kong racing. this is a classic n64 game no one shoild be without.This game is one of two reasons to buy an N64.  It's excellent multiplayer, with enough shortcuts and tricks to perfect that's it's also a great solo game.  If you have an N64 and you don't have this game, then you should stop wasting your time and go out and buy it.  You could play the other games, but they are terrible...Mario Kart 64 is an excellent game! I love the graphics, the creators at Nintendo 64 made them very specific. My favorite modes to play in are either Mario GP, because I love racing against the computer, or Battle, because you have to be alert and careful not to run into in obstacles like bananas or shells! I really like the "ghost" so you can see whether or not you beat your previous time with that course. My favorite course is Yoshi Valley because in many areas, there are no walls to keep you from falling, so it's a challenge, and I like the big squasher egg! The one thing that drives me crazy is the fact that the computer can manage to get in front of me while racing without me noticing or even knowing how they did it! Other than that, this is a great game with excellent graphics and fun for the whole family!! I hope you enjoyed my review!!People say GoldenEye was a much multiplayer than this game, but I've spent more happy hours racing my friends in Mario Kart 64 than blowing people up with proximity mines in the Complex in GoldenEye.
Lots of people extol the graphics in GoldenEye, but graphics in Mario Kart 64 is better. First of all, it has a lower polygon count and the characters look much better. The gameplay is simple, but that only means it's easier to learn. The card that comes with the game tells you everything you need to know so all you have to do is plop the game inside the console and start playing.
So the characters don't say much. It's mainly just a simple "Yippee!" or "I'm-a Wario and I'm-a gonna win!," but there's much more in-game speech than GoldenEye. Sound effects are fine too. The soundtrack is excellent. It ranges from coutry to smooth jazz. Even some major critics of video game music I know have said that the music here is great. You know Koji Kondo's doing something right hearing that.
Mario Kart 64 is addicting with four players, and it can be addicting with one player too. The Time Trials may be a little disappointing, but the Mario GP had me coming back for more.
The game is one of the best racing games on the N64. It's better than WaveRace, Diddy Kong Racing, F-Zero X, and even Excitebike 64. Heck it's one of the best games on the N64! If you haven't played this game, then you don't know what you're missing.This is a really cool game. I played this to death i don't know how many times, sometimes alone and at times with a partner.
It's really tragic if you don't have this game when you own an N64, you don't know what you're  missing out on.
Um...well, this game is pretty easy and you don't really  need a strategy guidebook for this one. I think the only reason why it's so  damn fun is because on every track and race, you can race it differently.  You can try new tricks or even attempt to create your own shortcut-if you  are that good!
Graphics-wise, it's all a let-down, i was expecting  realistic models but i got cartoony characters, but then again- it's mario  and friends, right?
As a mario fan- you'll want to have this in your  hands and if you're not- then play this as a party game. It beats Mario  Party in replay value but is somewhat less challenging.
So bottomline-  it's a little too easy. But that will not prevent it from being a top 100  game of all time (read EGM #100)....I bought these to use with band hero and with the voice games for xbox 360.  It worked well, plugged into the xbox 360 without any issues.  The microphone worked properly and was just as seller had described.  My voice is heard clearly on it and we were able to play both games usuing this mic.  Great deal with the price.  I would recommend it.9 out of 10 people will probably see this, and pass it up as another cheap RPG, for one thing you only have 1 dungeon (gasp) when you leve you level back down to 1 (GAsp), and you capture monster just like in Pokemon (GASP).  No it's not a compelation of rip off's, this is a classic that is highly addicting, and incredibly fun, if given a chance.
The story revolves around a young lad (you name) who on his fifteenth birthday is given the opportunity to become a hunter and explore the depths of the Monster Tower to retrieve riches, however to do so he must not only survive, but grow as a trainer and as a man.  In comes the Kewe, the monster you will likely use for a majority of the game.  He is a fire type (there are only three types) and he is your brief tutorial, and key to success early on.
 ... YOu also must build up your respect to the townsfolk, to do this you must enlarge certain places (Temple, Hospital) and build new things (Library, Gym, Casino, Race Track, Bowling Alley ect..) and the town will grow to respect you.
Now as for the tower it'self, there are 40 floors, everytime you leave you go back down to level 1.  No it's not immpossible for two reasons.
A) Your monsters level stays the same when you leave, this is due to the fact that they are more like equipment.
B) Weapons and armors stay the same, when a red or blue sand is used your weapons and armor grow more powerful, so technically you can easily dominate the first few levels without you monsters assistance.
Overall this game is tricky, you will die the first few times (lose all your items except monsters)  but once they are strong enough you can succeed.  There are 40 randomly changeing floors and they get more and more difficult as you go along.  YOu must adjust your mosnters accordingly by class.
A)Fire
B)Wind
C)Water
Fire beats Wind, Water beats Fire, Wind Beats Water.
I would buy this for the challenge it possess, guarennteed addiction.This game, for all that it was, was fun, exciting and enjoyable.  While some aspects of it are repetative, it is fun, and I had a blast.
You are a monster tamer, in the tradition of your father.  You must make your way deeper and deeper into the mysterious tower near town, to find fortune and achieve your destiny.  Each trip into the tower puts you at the beginning -- but your animals retain their skills.  You also can keep weapons and other items you find, but if you die, they are lost.
It is at least worth a rental if not a buy.  I give it five stars because it kept me very entertained, and I have been disenchanted with most of the SquareSoft games lately.  This really picked my spirits up.  If you don't mind a bit of repetition, you might not find this so bad.
You are also given quests to find objects in the tower, as well as the opportunity to build up and improve almost every building in your village.  Perhaps the best, and most amusing part, is how several women vie for your attentions, and you have to find the particular way to make them fall for you.
Not necessarily replayable, but great for at least a test drive.I got this game when it first came out which was a couple years ago, but I'm just now writing the review, strange isn't it?  This game is what makes having an N64 so great!  The graphics are just sweet.  The story pretty much follows the movie, and alters a little things to make it more enjoyable for us gamers.  This game is very easy to control.  That's one of the best things about it. The controls are placed if logical places, and it's better than the Turok controls.  The best part of this game is the multiplayer.  It's what made the game so famous.  Killing your friends has never been this much fun.  I'll never get tired of one of my friends walking in a hallway, unsuspecting that a proximity mine is waiting there to take his digital life.  The best multiplayer level has got to be the facility.  But I'll let you, the buyer, decide for yourself.  Another game I recommend, and that's probebly better is Perfect Dark.Alright this will most likely be the only time i will ever give a N64 game 5 stars, but for Goldeneye i eill make an exception. Ok Goldeneye was 64's jump into the world of high tech video game systems, but unfortunately they couldn't keep it up. This was a very solid 1st person shooter, excellent graphics , and not even repetitive secenary, what more could you ask for in a game? The weapons were great, maybe a little exaggerated at times, but over all good. Long levels and lots of them made this game excel in the lasting appeal category. Sound was good, but not having the cd quality sound os a PS or a DC hirt it a little. Unfortunately Goldeneye got a little smack in the face when everybody started comparing it to the flopped Perfect Dark game. But overall a great game and even though i am a die hard Playstation fan i still have a place in my heart for Goldeneye.This game offers it all.  Shooting action, adrenaline pumping duck and dodge fire fights, rescue missions, covert action, gadgets, evil villains, story and plot, and a lot of weapons.  I reccomend this to any gaming fan.  Buy this game right now!  You don't know what you're missing if you don't.  The game also offers an incredible ammount of replay value with dozens of cheats that can be activated by getting record times in levels and also two levels that can be activated by beatin gthe game on different levels of difficulty.  All in all, a completely amazing game.  Buy it.  Don't hesitate.(Note:This is the Gamecube Collectors Edition version)I remember ten years ago,seeing the commercial for this game. I always did wonder what it was like. After getting the collectors edition I immediately got started on it. The story focuses,as always,on Link. Link is a young boy living in the Kokiri Forest. One night he has a nightmare,and wakes to discover a fairy named Navi,who will help him through his journey. He is overjoyed but then discovers that the gaurdian of Kokiri Forest,the Great Deku Tree,is dying from a curse. The tree passes along a Spiritual Stone and recommends to see Princess Zelda. Link does so and Zelda tells him to get the other two spiritual stones so Link can get the Master Sword to stop Ganon,King of the Gerudos,from entering the Sacred Realm and stealing the Trifoce,a divine relic. Link achieves the other stones and the Ocarina of Time. Link draws the Sword and finds out he has been tricked by Ganon,who entered the Sacred Realm. Link awakens seven years later,and after discovering he is now an adult,meets Rauru the Sage of Light. According to Rauru,the only way to defeat Ganon is to awaken the Five Sages. That is where the true quest begins. Wow,what a story! Now,the graphics are not bad by today's standards. Neither are the dungeons. They are amazing. And also very complicated.(Please don't mention the Water Temple).Overall this game can be summed up by one word:Perfect. Buy the game,become the hero,and have the time of your life.I remember when my parents bought this game for my older brother in the 90's. It brings back so many memories and my brother and I still play it even though we beat it many times. My brother would play it every day trying to beat every obstacle and this game is truly fun, when my brother let me play the game I was hooked, I did need some of his help on many things but that didn't bother me from having fun. I enjoyed this game and anybody will. I usually don't like these kind of games but this game is amazing and I love to play it. Nintendo 64 truly does bring back memories and their games are fun too.What isn't great about this game? I'm so glad that this game has so many reviews because it definitely deserves it. Ocarina of Time remains one of my favorite videogames of all time. Yes, the generation of gaming is getting wider and graphics are getting beautiful with each console but The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, on N64, doesn't add up to them. Well, at least to me it doesn't. I've seen a few 1 star reviews about people bashing the game only because it's no "everquest" or "Halo". This game is so good that you don't compare its style or graphics with something in today's modern gaming. This is an old school game. You just don't compare old games to new ones. I believe there's a favorite for every generation. This one happened to fall into the N64 genre, when gaming was really starting to pick up. And honestly, you think over 700 5-star reviews were written all by children? We were children when we all played the game! And looking back as adults now we cherish it as a classic and one of the best in videogame history. Kids that didn't get to exprience the NES, SNES, and N64 missed out on a great gaming genre and though the generation of gaming today is awesome there's nothing on the classics.

Ocarina of Time remains my favorite game of all time, even before some of my new favorites and there's nothing like turning on that N64 and playing over and over again. I never tire of this game. It is a true classic.Fans of any oldschool dungeon crawler should snap this game up. In a similar style to other games of the time, you assume the roll of a monster hunter with a mission to climb a mysterious tower following in your father's footsteps.

Some may say the graphics are dated. I feel that they are nostalgic. With randomly-generated dungeons, spelunking is always a grand adventure. A must-have for any RPG lover!I was actually thinking about this game a few months ago and it was killing me that I couldn't remember the name.  This game was a ton of fun though I'm sure if I played it now I would laugh at how dated it is.  If you have a way to play this I recommend it.  I blew a lot of hours on this game and would gladly pick it up again if they made it available for download on the PS3.Let me put it like this, if I had to destroy every videogame I own except one, this is the one I wouldn't destroy. This is simply the greatest game ever made. I'm not going to insult this game by trying to describe the storyline or graphics etc.. You have to experience it for yourself. Most helpful thing I can do is tell you how you can get to play this. This game has had dozens of ports. One came on a bonusdisc for Gamecube with "Windwaker" in 2003 and another came in a collectors edition (Master Quest) also for gamecube. If you can't get ahold of one of these, the original for N64, or a ROM you should buy a Wii and download it from the Wii Virtual Console. It will be worth the while.I have played many many many video games in my life, and this game is literally the best game that I have ever played in my life. It's nice and long (like all the other Zelda games) It has a perfect level of difficulty, there are so many different weapons in the game, there are so many memorable dungeons and fields in the game, well, I could go on forever. I wish I could give this game a higher score than the measly 5-star rating Amazon.com forces me to give but alas, i cannot. If you own a Nintendo 64, BUY THIS GAME RIGHT NOW! If you don't own an N64, you can still buy it for gamecube, it's the same exact game. I own it for both N64 and Gamecube. If you like this game, then buy the sequel too! It's called Majora's mask. I'm telling you, you will definetly not regret buying this game if you are a die-hard Zelda fan... Or even if you are not a die-hard Zelda fan. Although I don't know who would be reading a review of a game that was made in nineteen ninety-something, in 2007... IF YOU ARE READING THIS, BUY THIS GAME RIGHT NOW, AND IF YOU DON'T YOU ARE MISSING OUT!!  Everything about this game is perfect!... That is all.Back in the late 1990s I wrote two articles for a now defunct game website about "Ocarina of Time". One is a review of the title, and the other is the how in many ways Ocarina of Time feels like a remake of the eternal SNES classic (and my personal favorite Zelda game), THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: A LINK TO THE PAST. Rather than leave them unposted, I issued them on Amazon back in 2007, one article on the "Collector's Edition" ("Zelda 64 a Remake?" and and one on the "Regular" edition (an actual review of the game). When the 3DS version came out, I wrote a review of that and included both articles on the review as well for bonus content. Originally this review only featured one of the two articles - I am now putting both articles up.

Mike London, 9-9-2012

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This commentary on "Ocarina of Time" was written as a gaming article for a retro-gaming site back in May of 1999.  I was going to post it on Amazon but for some reason never got around to it.  Mike London, November 3, 2007

Article 1: Does "Zelda 64" really live up to all the hype?

[Blurb: With all the hype, its hard to be objective about OoT.  Is it the best game in the series, or does it have to settle for second (or, egad, third?) best?  Is it like Star Wars Episode I, all special effects and no substance?  Find out a few thoughts from a fellow gamer!]

The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is easily one of the most hyped games of recent gaming history.  In fact, I think I could safely say it IS the most hyped game yet.  There is only one thing that can compare to it in terms of hype, and this product is in an entirely different industry.  Star Wars: Episode I had the same amount of coverage.  Being a big fan of both, of course I've beat the game and have seen the movie.  And they have one thing in common.  They're both eye candy.  But how do they hold up to the rest of the series?  In my opinion, The Empire Strikes Back is by far the best Star Wars movie.  But what about OoT you ask?  How can I defame such an instant classic?

One reason mainly.  In the original and in The Legend of Zelda: Link to the Past, (I can't speak for Zelda II because I haven't beat it yet) the ending was spectacular.  Not the game ending, for The Legend of Zelda was produced in the Stone Age and there was much ending wise, but the last dungeon.  Ah, the last dungeon.  Only recently (like December 23, 1999) have I beat the first quest of The Legend of Zelda.  That last dungeon on Death Mountain was a killer, a true challenge that you had to match your mettle with to get past it, save Princess Zelda and beat that nasty ol' Gannon.  It was truly a great dungeon.  Now skip on past those five years between the release of the original and the SNES version.  What have we here?  A dungeon comparable to that in the original Legend of Zelda!  Everything is bigger and better in the SNES version, including the last dungeon.  Whew, and I thought the original was harder, but no way!

Then, in 1993, we see the release of the Game Boy version of Zelda.  The Legend of Zelda: Link's Awakening was released to a very receptive crowd.  But guess what!  No end dungeon!  In terms of dungeons, this is the smallest of the Zelda titles (again, not including Zelda II).  You beat eight dungeons, and then you go and beat the Wind Fish.  Personally, I'm half a dungeon away from completing this Zelda game (Dungeon Seven, which I completed half of, went and beat eight, and now I'm back on the last half of VII).  That last dungeon was challenging, granted, but what about that classic end dungeon?  No where to be found here.  Granted, it's a Game Boy game, and it is huge for that consol.  So that offence is not to serious.  And we did get a new dungeon, though not the ending I was hoping for, with the Colour Dungeon on DX, which was the rerelease of the classic game for Game Boy Colour.

After five long years, The Legend of Zelda: Orcarina of Time was released for the N64.  So cool!  Link in a 3D adventure.  About time too.  Mario, the cash cow counterpart to Link, got his 3D adventure way back in `96.  Of course, I bought the game.  And of course, I beat it.  It is an excellent game.  Truly it is one of the great classics.  But one flaw keeps it from edging out The Legend of Zelda: Link to the Past.  The end dungeon absolutely sucked.  That is my only disappointment with that game.  As I was nigh the close of the Shadow Temple, I was really looking forward to getting into Gannon's tower.  I was expecting a great closer dungeon, just like in Link to the Past.

[Spoiler: If you haven't beat the 64 version of Zelda, don't read this]

What did we get?  Instead of a great closer dungeon, we got a door way that was blocked by barriers.  What did we have to do?  Go thru six rooms and beat whatever was in them, then go and shoot the barrier corresponding with each temple to open the pathway.  And what did I get?  A great disappointment.  Sure, this might have been a good way to end a novel or something, but to end a Zelda game like that was horrible.  The Game Boy was forgivable and acceptable, but this ending to Zelda 64 was truly despicable.  That has been my biggest disappointment with the Zelda series.

[Spoiler Finished]

Others say The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is the best Zelda game.  I have to disagree.  Don't get me wrong.  It is easily one of my favorite games of the N64.  It's a great game, very innovative (espically that nifty Z Targeting feature) and an epic in its own right.  But for what the system is capable of, The Legend of Zelda: Link to the Past beats it out of the coveted title of Best Zelda Game.  LTTP is huge.  It fully utilized the SNES technology.  It had a full twelve dungeons, two of which the sole purpose was to beat the bad guy, and not try to retrieve any medallions or crystals or pendents or pieces of triforce or what ever.  That's one more than the original has.  (LoZ has one closer dungeon for each quest.)  After you beat the bad guy twice, you go and fight Ganon.  There were plenty of side quests for an SNES Zelda also.  Overall, for the system's capabilites, LTTP is my favorite.

But what about The Legend of Zelda: OoT?  My two chief complaints are these:
  1.  Weak closer dungeon (as I spent a good time detailing up above).
  2.  Not enough bad guys to kill in the Overworld.

All other Zelda games, including the black sheep of the family (Zelda II), has plenty of bad guys to kill in the Overworld.  But what have we in OoT?  A few measly skeleton dudes at night, and some giant flying plants that you can hardly get too in Hyrule Field.  Give me the old Zelda with bad guys streaming at you in every new screen.  For all the time they put into it, you don't think it would be to hard to correct this problem.

Then we come to another mistake Nintendo made in the N64 version of Zelda.  Granted, LoZ had two main tracks, one being the Overworld theme and then the dungeon theme.  They could have had more variety, but it was back in the Stone Age.  That Overworld Theme became pretty much the theme of the entire series.  And guess what they decided to omit music wise from OoT?  The Overworld them from the original LoZ!  I couldn't believe they did that!  Hopefully we'll see it in Zelda Gaiden.  Maybe the Triforce will show up in that game too.  Just a thought.

Now, after railing on OoT for a great majority of this article, you may think I hate the game.  Quite the opposite, really.  It's a great game, and worthy to be in the Zelda Series.  (Gee, it sounds like I'm defending Zelda II, which I've already done in a separate article).  But it has been the single most hyped up game in the history of Nintendo, and it is totally out of balance.  Great 3D game, but would have been better had it corrected the problems I stated above.  It's a fun game, and I had a great time beating it.  It provides a lot of enjoyment.  But, just like Star Wars: Episode I, it just can't live up to all that hype?  I wonder if any game (or movie) could actually.

[May 9, 1999.  An article originally written for NintendoLand.com.  I've written four released articles and one unreleased article (dealing with SMB 2).  It will have to be edited.  Also, perhaps incorporating part of the structural symmetry article.]
.
.
.
.
.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Article 2:
[Originally this was written for a retro-gaming site back in early January, 2000. It has never appeared on Amazon.]

Zelda 64 a Remake?

[Blurb: Zelda 64 and SNES Zelda has several similarities, almost to the point that the basic game design of Zelda 64 is a remake. Read here for more information on this intriguing phenomena! Just a few thoughts from a fellow gamer!]

After playing the course of The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, I've noticed something very intriguing about it. It seems to be a rehash of what I feel is the best Zelda game: LoZ: Link to the Past. Why do I say this? I say this because there are several structural symmetries that lie between Zelda 64 and LTTP.

Lets examine it. For one, there are three pendants you have to acquire in LTTP. This is after you go and rescue Zelda and leave her at the temple. Well, this time around, you don't rescue Zelda, but you do go and talk to her. After that, when you get the three pendants, you go and she is kidnaped. This is after you get the Master Sword in the Lost Woods. In Zelda 64, you go thru the first part of the quest, getting three spiritual stones. After you get those three spiritual stones (which I think the tower on LTTP is much better than that d----- Lord Jabu Jabu's belly. I hated that dungeon! =)), you go to the town. Guess what, as Link approaches, there it cuts to a cinema, and Zelda is kidnaped by Ganondorf. Hmm . . . haven't we seen this story before? It turns out that you have to get 5 of the Sage's medallions. Rauru conveniently gives you one, so we can cut the sixth one away. Only by getting the six sage medallions can you open the bridge to fight Ganondorf. How intriguing.

In the superiour SNES Zelda counterpart, it is seven crystals, and you don't get one given to you. Link wakes no sages this time. Instead, the seven maidens of the wise men descent have been hidden in deep dank dungeons, and Link has to transverse thru 13 dungeons all together, 5 the first part, and eight the second part. They are challenging, fun, and intriguing. Granted, Zelda 64 has some great stuff. But it is not as consistent as LTTP. After you have gone thru the seven dungeons (two more than in Zelda 64), you now have all seven crystals. That's great! Now, go to Death Mountain, and by doing so you will open the way to Ganon's big bad temple.

Okay, what do we have in Zelda 64? You go and get the five medallions, plus the one that Rauru gives you as Link. Guess what? Now you have to go to his tower, and open the rainbow bridge with the six medallions.* Hmm . . . isn't that what we did in SNES Zelda? Why, I do believe it is, Watson!

Another issue yet addressed is the Light World/Dark World. Zelda 64 does the same thing, save this time it is time traveling (I'm not even going to go into the impossibilities of time travel on this . . . that's a whole separate article in itself). In SNES Zelda, you have a little mirror the old man gave you. There are eight transporters located thruout Hyrule, transporting back and forth. If you are in the Dark World, you can use the mirror to go into the Light World, making a temporary transporter. Well, in Zelda 64, there is no mirror or transporters (the closest to a mirror is the Lens of Truth, found nigh in the Shadow Temple). But if you go and put the sword back, then you go back to being young. That creates two versions of the same world to explore. That structural symmetry corresponds to LTTP. Not only that, but at the end if the first three stones, Link goes to the Temple of Time and gets the sword. This is after the three Spiritual Stones goes into place. Hmm . . . isn't that what happened in LTTP? After getting the three pendents, Link goes to the Lost Woods and retrieves the Master Sword. But he cannot do that until he has all three pendents. Well, that's the same in Zelda 64. He can't get the Ocarina of Time, now can he retrieve the sword, until he wins the corresponding three spiritual stones. I swear I've played this game before . . . . ; )

The real question is why did Nintendo do this? Well, Miyamoto is a great gamming god, but as far as stories go, his team is not that good at having connecting story lines that make sense. Again, another article, another time. The structural symmetries lying between Zelda 64 and LTTP is quite frightening. Who knows why they chose to do that? Granted, the story line is different, but quite a few of the fundamentals behind both pieces are indeed the same. In review:

A Listing of Structural Symmetries between SNES Zelda and Zelda 64

1. SNES: First Part, Link goes and retrieves three pendants after rescuing Zelda. This is to get the Master Sword. Upon doing so, and after giving the Pendants up to retrieve the Sword, Zelda is kidnaped.

2. N64: Link, after receiving a mission from the Deku Tree, goes and wins the three Spiritual Stones. Upon doing so, he goes to Hyrule City, but not before learning Zelda is kidnaped. He places the three Spiritual Stones in their place, and the Door of Time is opened, and there the sword is. Retrieving the Sword, goes to the Temple of Sages, or whatever it is called. Is given first Sage Medallion.

3. SNES: After winning the three pendents, Link must now go between two versions of the world (Light World/Dark World). Link must go back and forth between the two worlds to beat the game.

4. N64: In this great stunning adventure, Link must go between two versions of his world. One is when he is young, the other when he is an adult. This is achieved by putting the sword back in its pedestal. Just like in SNES LTTP, Link have to go back and forth to finish the game.
When he is an adult, things are noticeable more evil, for Ganon's power has grown.

5. SNES: One version (Light World) is good because not corrupted by Ganon. Version II (Dark World), is an evil corrupted version of the Light World.

6. N64: One version (Young Link's world) is not corrupted by Ganon's evil. Ganon has just recently showed up. Version II (Adult Link's world), is an evil corrupted version (albeit older) of Young Link's world. The only difference is in one its two different versions of the same thing, in Zelda 64 it's the time barrier. But for game play, they're the same.

7. SNES: He, Link, must recover seven crystals hidden in seven dungeons (sounds logical). With the maidens' power, they will open to door to Ganon's castle.

8. N64: Link has to recover five medallions to open Ganon's Tower.

9. SNES: The (massive) closer dungeon is a tower.

10. N64: The (weak) closer dungeon is a tower.

11. SNES: After beating Ganon, you save Zelda, who had been kidnaped. Although one could argue you save her in Turtle Rock, she is still imprisoned in the Crystal with the other maidens, each in their respective Crystals.

12. N64: Sticking to the standard Nintendo story, after recovering the medallions and beating Ganon, guess what, Link saves Zelda. There's a shocker.

13. SNES: There are various mini-games, heart pieces, and extra things to do. This trend is continued in Link's Awakening also.

14. Zelda 64: Stuck with the trend of mini-games, four heart pieces to make a heart, and extra things to do.

15. SNES: In some of the houses, you can find a picture of Mario on the wall.

16. N64: In Zelda 64, after meeting Zelda, look out the window, and you can find some pictures of Mario, Luigi, Bowser, and the Princess. Yoshi also comes up. Malon and Talon wear Bowser amulets also. Just goes to show, Nintendo likes cameos.

As you can see for yourself, the various structural symmetries between Zelda 64 and SNES Zelda is quit a few. If Miyamoto wanted to do a remake of LTTP for N64 that's what he should have done, I suppose. This, as far as story goes, is pretty much an update with little changed. Its like they took the game's basic plot, changed the circumstances and added where appropriate, but allowing the basic structure to stand. And, although both are great games, sadly, SNES is better, consistently with each dungeon getting a little harder and more complex. But I love Ocarina of Time all the same. This just helps support my believe that Nintendo is first and foremost a gaming company, not a writing company.

*In all previous Zelda games, the end dungeon was in the mountains. This is the first game in the series to break that trend. The first three (Zelda I, II, and LTTP) their dungeon was in Death Mountain. Link's Awakening, Link's only Game Boy adventure (currently) is in Tal Tal Mountains. At least we have something that broke one of the several trends running thru this classic series.this game is a real gem , treasure it and treat it well it is worth any priceLegend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is one of my favorite games ever!  I just love the storyline and the characters,even though Link, Ganondorf and Zelda have been in all of the Zelda games, but this game is the best.  The original Legend of Zelda for the Nintendo was okay, but it felt like the game would NEVER end!  I recommend this game to fantasy lovers who also love the idea of a super villan an action-ready hero.  This is also one of Nintendo's classics.  Everything a fantasy story needs is right in this game.This is one of the best games I have ever played.  Even shooting the arrows is fun, you can actually use your shield to block getting hit.  Just incredible.  The only bad thing I can possibly say is you almost have to buy the strategy guide or else you will likely get stuck on some levels.  There are a few dungeons that I could not find my way out of without buying the guide.  But overall great game!!man, i remember getting this game when i was around 9 years old, and alll those hours i spent beating this game over and over again. I Gurantee I've beaten this game at least 100 times, Honestly! Though the N64 is outdated, from time to time I take it out of my closet and plug it in just to play this game. I hope the twilight princess will be just the same!Unless you've been living in a box your whole life, chances are you've heard about what an incredible game this is. Nay, I will go as far as to say perfect. Even if you haven't grown up with the Zelda series, you're still likely to find this game quite enjoyable. It's safe to say that this game was nothing short of revolutionary, and it continues to be one of my favorite video games of all time.

The story begins as a young Link awakens in a small tree hut. Staying true to past games, you start off with no items or weapons. You soon learn that the Great Deku Tree wishes to see Link, and thus you set out to explore Kokiri Forest. Upon taking your first steps outside, you meet the elfish inhabitants of the forest. While you search the area for a sword, you have time to get accustomed to the controls and the environment. Once you have sufficiently explored the forest and gathered the required items, you head for the Great Deku Tree, accompanied by your faerie friend Navi. After completing this first dungeon, the Deku Tree explains the history of the Triforce and rewards Link with the Spiritual Stone of the Forest, thus setting the story in motion.

The graphics of this game are fantastic for its time. You can now journey through a fully navigable 3D map. The details of the environment properly capture the mood of each setting, be it a forest village, a watery temple, a haunted underground maze, or the inside of a giant fish's belly. The map of Hyrule is pretty expansive and full of places and objects to explore. The cinematic sequences look great and tie the segments of the story together well.

I absolutely love the controls in this game. Everything is pretty intuitive: the A Button is used to execute actions, the B Button swings your sword, and the C Buttons allow you to store up to three items to use during play. You're able to roll and jump, swim and climb, block attacks, stab, and build up power for swing attacks. But the greatest addition to the control features is the Z Targeting ability. This function allows you to lock on to people and enemies and focus a particular action on the targeted object. Moreover, this button will focus the camera directly behind Link, allowing you to have control over your point of view. To this day, I compare games' camera controls to Ocarina of Time, often wishing for that very desirable Z Targeting capability. A great addition to your supply of character controls.

The story itself builds upon previous games in the series, for we interact with familiar characters like Zelda and Ganondorf in addition to many new individuals. As always, there are a whole variety of weapons and items to collect during your travels, some that are familiar and some that are new to this title. What makes this game even more engaging is the idea of traveling through time. You begin the story as a child, growing as a warrior and searching for the Spiritual Stones. When you travel into the future, the world has become darker and your missions more challenging. There is a constant interplay between the past and the present as you try to make your way through the dungeons and numerous side quests. The multitude of puzzles, games, and items to collect makes this story very immersive and entertaining. The endearing characters that you meet provide for a rich, enjoyable plot, furthering your adventure along with their dialogue and aid.

And the game would not be complete without sound. Again, Ocarina of Time gains a perfect score here. The sounds that Link makes when he fights, moves, and interacts with others are both enjoyable and believable. The echoes that your character makes are varied depending on what type of environment he is in. Likewise, the soundtrack is just as appropriate. Each level has a different musical score, and each song blends in beautifully with the surroundings. Also, some of the songs are familiar tunes from the previous games, transformed just right for a sound that is nostalgic, yet new. The ocarina songs are appealing as well, adding another interesting component to the gameplay. Ocarina of Time really has a wonderful soundtrack, and even today I still enjoy listening to it.

All in all, this game is truly a classic, and yet another impressive sequel in the Zelda series. From the sensible controls to the superb storyline to the awesome soundtrack, Ocarina of Time is a gem in the adventure game genre.The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time is a definite Classic. I've owned this game for a good 6 years and it's just extraordinary and fun, but at the same time educational. In this game you must do alot of thinking and find out where the secrets are. So in other words, it's a magical adventure game.

The graphics are actually good (for it's time) and the gameplay is easy to get used to. The controls are also simple and the whole storyline is just well thought out and I can definitely tell that they put alot of time into this game. In my opinion it's the best Zelda game so far.

Now I will tell you the beginning of the Story so you can even feel more excited about getting this game.

As a young baby boy, your mother was killed by an evil person. Now you have no home and have to move to a place called the Kokiri Forest. This is a place where people never grow up and aren't allowed to leave the forest. They're called the Kokiri. But you're different. You really don't belong in this forest, instead you belong out in a world called Hyrule. You're a Hylian (normal people who actually grow up). You're out there to defeat Ganondorf. Ganondorf, most likely the person who killed your mother, is a strong and evil person who wants to take over Hyrule and become the King. The only person that can stop him is you (Link). Now the question is, will you be able to defeat the mean and evil Ganondorf and save the world of Hyrule?

If you think (or know) you can take that responsibility, then I suggest that you buy this game along with the N64 (if you don't have one) and experience something very special. Like I said, it's a definite Classic and will keep you entertained for hours on end! You won't regret it!

Thank you for reading and I hope I was helpful enough.This game has crossed the "I Like You" line. It's just like the old one from NES, although, I know about the dungeons and the weapons because I have the old one. So, it's fun to play for a while until you get to the Water Temple, it gets confusing there. So, use the Player's Guide to cheat, so that you won't get stuck. I played a long time ever since it came out. It was the game that caught my eye and though I had to have the game. I am a Zelda fan and I hope that you have fun playing it as well. I just like to see Link grow up.This Zelda game is simply amazing! The Wind Waker sucked and Four Swords was OK, but this game rocks! The main plot was spectacular and the gameplay was great! I first played the game after getting Collector's Edition for Christmas, and I was addicted to it. The main plot throughout the whole game is that Link(as a kid) must collect 3 Spiritual stones and open the Door of Time, along with the Ocarina of Time. As an adult, Link must awaken the 5 sages and fight to destroy the evil Ganondorf and rescue Zelda. I have beaten the game 6 times it was so good! I highly recommend it to big Zelda fans. NOTE: This game has a sequel called Majora's Mask, but it's not near as good in my opinion.like all zelda games the ocarina of time provides an adventure about link a young hero.in the ocarina of the player takes control of a young boy known as link. right from the start of the game players jaws dropped at the sight of the graphics for 64 bit graphics it looks amazing.as the story progresses players obtain more items and link becomes more of a hero at about 2 thirds through the player becomes an adult and he cant use some of his items which is one the most impressive features in a game iv ever seen. Its about an ancient evil being restored and a child giving up his youth for his country theres nothing bloody wrong with this game its perfect.p.sthis game is why you keep your n64Although I like the SNES Zelda best, you really can't make a game better than this one.  Sometimes a game is made that goes above and beyond 5 stars.  This game is like that.

A vast amount of items, all found in unique ways.  Awesome.  Lots of giant evil bosses.  Awesome.  Lots of underground hidden stuff.  Awesome.  Lots of weird folk to talk to.  Awesome.  Time travel in a HUGE mythical world.  Awesome.  Lots of mini-games to play for cool prizes.  Awesome.  Just so many awesome things packed into this ONE game.  I usually only recommend rentals, but a rental wouldn't do this game justice.  You have to buy it, you have to beat it, and you have to find every secret.  Live this game, and every now and then, live it again.

I'll also recommend buying some kind of strategy guide, or looking for tips online to find everything.  I've heard that there is a giant monsterous eel-like fish in the pond, but I have yet to catch anything like that.This game is the best game on my n64 next to nightmare creatures, this game feels like final fantasy, with Kingdom hearts it was the best selling game on the n64. If you still have one you should pick this one up.I love this game! You can't say that you are a Zelda fan, if you don't own this game. This game features an awesome storyline, unforgettable characters, and just keeps getting better. You could play this game forever, and not get tired of it! If you have a N64 system, you better own this game! Or if you have a Gamecube, you should have the Legend of Zelda Collectors Disk!The most recent LoZ games, in my opinion, have all been fairly average.  Wind Waker was the latest actually good LoZ game.  But of all the LoZ games, OoT is just plain incredible.

In this game, you play as Link as he grows from a child into a young man while on his quest to defeat Ganon and save the world from ultimate, evil rule.  Along the way, you meet many friends and face amazing boss battles.

The graphics (at the time) were just incredible.  It really made me enjoy looking at and playing the game.  Nintendo really did a great job in this department.

The gameplay is like no other.  One of the few incredible games to utilize the C Buttons for vital controls, this game felt really comfortable to play, and there's tons to do in the game besides just beating it.  Also, throughout the game, you are forced to travel back and forth through time and play as Young or Adult Link to complete the game, which is awe-inspiring in my opinion.  Sadly, after doing little everything, there's no addictive mini-games to really play and not much else to do, but go through the game again and again.

The sound is incredible, and the music has never been better.  I found myself turning the volume on the TV all the way up while playing this game, because the sound was that good!

If you're an avid gamer, yet you've never played this game, then something's really wrong with you.  Pick this game up and play it 'till your fingers fall off (which I guarantee you'll do).  This game is worth buying and owning for as long as you even are alive.This is the best game I have ever played. It has very good music,grapics,and the story is great! I really love this game,but the only really big problem with this game is that it has this one(long and boring)temple that is very hard,and(please)don't take this game lightly,the bosses are hard,but the story is so good that you will want to play this game again and again! But the other Zelda games are lame! So only (if you want to)buy this game and maybe 'the legend Zelda A link to the past'.  PROS:the story is great,It's a fun game,and the great fairys(Fairys that will power you up and give you new weapons) are easy to find.  CONS:switching around the camera is a little bit hard,and finding the goldskull tokens(gold coin like tokens that you win from beating spider monsters)is easy at the beginning of the game but hard at the end.  This is a great game,so I would recommend it to anyone who likes fantasy games,I would also recommend'final fantasyI&II dawn of souls'and'The legend of zelda:the wind waker'.BY FAR ONE OF BEST ZELDA GAMES OF ALL TIME. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME. WELL WORTH THE MONEY.I'll make it short...I hope.

I'm not particular a fantasy lover, I never read Tolkien's Lord of the Ring, I hate the Lord of the ring-movies and was insulted by the numerous Oscars the film(s) received.
I despise the Star Wars movies, especially The Return of the Jedi, which has that peculiar fantasy-feel in it.
Blahdieblahblah.

Now, with games it's a different story, I don't know why, but I'm much more forgiving and willing to accept a world where fairies, gnomes and other creatures excist.
The Ocarina of time is one of few artistic highlights I encountered in my life...it's almost ridiculous when I think about what I've just wrote, what about literature, art and cinema?

This game moved me so much...am I a geek?...there's so much depth in this piece of ...art.
It isn't the story (alone), c'mon let's be honest, it's an average fantasy tale, if made into a movie I'd fall asleep after 10 minutes.
I think it's all the pieces put together: a beautiful crafted world, the progress when playing - from a child into a young man -, the challenges you'll face and overcome, the music that playes a big role in the game, the use of time: day and night, future and past etc. etc.
It grabs you and most important: it's interactive (duh) for it's a game, you're not watching a crap fantasy movie, but playing the hero all by yourself, when he looses, you loose etc.

I played a lot of games in my life, including many new(er) titles as Halo, GTA, Metroid Prime etc etc and I didn't yet played a game that matched the sheer brilliance of The Legend of Zelda - The Ocarina Of Time.
Best game ever (so far).There always comes along trend setters that some how cannot be bettered! Zelda is one of those games ,its challenging enjoyable adventurous fun!!!!!!!!!!! i loved every minute of it even though at times i wanted root out my hair i have no regrets having this game in my collection,one of the best games ever on 64.

even though the 64 era has ended if you are a die hard gamer from time to time you may want to go back this game is definitely worth playing again and again there's always something you would have miss that you can find the next time around.Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time is a classic.  It should be played by every Nintendo fan and fans who are not big on Nintendo.  The Zelda series is infact a big popular series but this one defys all of them.  Ocarina of Time is a stand alone Zelda classic.  It is not only the best Zelda game but it is possibly the greatest game ever created on a console.  The story line is oh so brilliant and the graphics(even for todays standard) are unbelievable.  Anyone who owns a Nintendo 64 needs this game.  This game is pretty old and pretty cheap(I lost my game so I baught one for 5 bucks at Gamestop)so it won't be hard to find.  This game infact shows what the Nintendo 64 is capable of.  The game is very well made as you play through a huge world...well not that huge..  And I will say this..(I may be exagerating this though) But the Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time has one of the best "boss battle finale" ending ever..Ubelievable..Graphics in this game a superb.  There were parts in the game were I would just stand there and stare at the ocean, houses anything cause it looked so beautiful.  I loved how they created the bosses especially the last one and it was amazing how realistic they made the horse look.  Nintendo scores big with the graphics.  The gameplay is magneficent.  I loved how it was all made and done.  I really can't get into this one, you'll just have to play this part for yourself....The sound is..My god...It's beautiful I even downloaded all the songs.  I loved the song were your in the temple and you get the Mastersword cause they made that song really well.  The music in the farm were Epona is was made extreamly well and was just BRILLIANT!  As I've stated the story in this game is just plain good, though it obviously has the "save" themed plot as you all know and I won't really get into the plot since there is already like 500 reviews saying what the plot is about..Sure the game is old and outdated, I guess..But so what..The game is still one of the greatest games of all time.  I'll put it in simple words for you, the game is flawless!  The game has an amazing plot that will suck you in, the gameplay is fun and classic(as well as riding Epona the horse)and music is just plain beautiful, the enviroments and atmosphere of the game as just as incredible as the game itself is and as I stated before...Ocarina of Time is simply the greatest video game ever made(and if it's not possible then it has hands down the best video game ever made, no the best video game OF ALL TIME)....Get this game you will not regret it!

5 out of 5!!!!(if I could I would give it 100000 out of 5)I've beaten the game 20 times and I'm still not bored of playing it. If you haven't played this game then PLAY IT!!!!!!! you won't be sorry you did. This is much better than all the other FINAL FANTASY and rpg crap out there.Since Amazon is sort of combining Ocarina of Time and Majora's Mask into one review, I will write a review for both games. Both games have been remade for the GameCube, and I own both the original N64 version and the GameCube version. The gameCube versions were released if you bought a GameCube at a certain time and if you pre-ordered the Wind Waker.

THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: OCARINA OF TIME
This game started out as you as the "Hero of Time". You were the only forest child without a fairy, and the Great Deku Tree sent the annoying little fairy to you. When you go to the Deku Tree, he says you must get these Spiritual Stones to open the Door of Time, and a bunch of other crap like that.

Sound and Music: 9.5/10.0 This game has one of the best scores in the video game world, and the ocarina songs are very good. 100% credit to the music makers of all the Zelda Games, these are some great songs. The only problem is you can't shut it off. Sometimes it gets annoying, and it doesn't help if you are stuck on a level for hours.

Graphics: 2004: 4.0/10.0 1998: 9.0/10.0 In this day in age the graphics are so good these look like horrible. If this game was released today, everyone would laugh. Back in 1998, these graphics were the best out there. But the good thing about them is you can see the faces unlike some of those games fromt hat time it made you go blind.

Difficulty: 10.0/10.0 This game is HARD! I beat it barely without a strategy guide, and you can be stuck on levels like the Forest Temple and the freaking Water Temple for MONTHS. If you beat the game with a strategy guide, you take the challenge and fun out of it. You also won't have many broken items, like controllers or TV's.

Gameplay: 1,000,000.0/ 10.0 It is considered the best game ever, and was the 1998 Game Of The Year. You could do EVERYTHING in this game, and it is very fun doing all those side quests and other crap. This game is like no other. No other game can match this, none of that Final Fantasy or any other RPG match it, it is the best Nintendo game ever made.

THE LEGEND OF ZELDA: MAJORA'S MASK
The game takes a huge turn in Majoras Mask as young Link goes out with Epona from Hyrule. No Ganondorf's in this game, because it revolves around Majora's Mask, a mask stolen by this little imp from the Happy Mask Shop guy from OOT. You have three days to get the mask back, but you must keep going back using the Ocarina and the Song of Time.

Sound and Music: 9.5/ 10.0 It is like a carbon copy of Ocarina of Time, and the suspensful music is very catchy. The game has great music, ALL ZELDA GAMES HAVE GREAT MUSIC.

Graphics: Same As Ocarina of Time

Difficulty: 9.5/10.0 Not as bad as Ocarina of Time, but that doesn't mean it is not frustrating and challenging. You can't be scared away by the challenge of these games because they are just too great.

Gameplay: 10.0/10.0 The whole mask collecting concept is very fun and it a change from beating Ganondorf like in all the other games. You will feel deja vu of Ocarina of Time because the characters are the same, just different. The game is fun and a great challenge. Overall, these games are classical N64 greats!Zelda: OOT is centered around a massive, circular field called Hyrule. Around this field are pathways which lead off to various different locations such as dungeons, castles, villages, volcanoes, etc... Each path will lead to usually one destination like a castle, and once explored, you travel back across Hyrule field and visist another pathway which leads to a different location. This makes areas more accessible, and it makes backtracking as less tedius as possible, due to the fact that you're not endessly travelling through pre-explored ares. Backtracking is an important feature of OOT, due to the fact that when you progress through the game you aquire objects which give you the ability to explore areas more thoroughly ... bombs for instance blow up walls that hide secret paths. Hockshots give you the ability to ascend to higher ledges. The Ocarina of Time opens secret doors. Thus, pre explored areas which you thought were unimportant can in fact conceal the most important instruments and dungeons in the game. This is compounded, when at one point in the game you aquire the Master Sword. This is a special sword which, upon claiming, makes you and the world age by seven years, and by doing the reverse, putting the sword back in it's mold, makes you and the world 7 years younger. The good thing about this is that the past and future are profoundly different. The future is controlled by evil, whereas the past is controled by good. Needless to say, your mission in the game is to liberate peice by peice the future world from the evil Ganondolf. However, in order to do so you must travel back and forth in time creating situations which will have an impact on the future world.

A main part of this game is the ocarina of time. Depending on what tune you play, the ocarina will turn night in to day, make it rain, open secret doors, or make blocks disappear, amoung other things.  This adds an important layer to the game, for you have to use your brain in order to work out which song is necessary to progress. For instance, after spending hours wondering what to do, the idea could suddenly hit you, "Should I play Zelda's Lullaby in front of the waterfall?" If successful, the waterfall will stop and a passageway will display itself, thus giving you a tremendous satisfied feeling. The actual songs you learn in the game are some of the best songs in computer game history. In fact, only Computer World by Kraftswerk can compare to the greatness of the music in OOT.

By the time Zelda: OOT was released the difficulty in games was just perfect. Your heart was racing when you met a worthy adversary, you were fustrated when you died, you were delighted when you succeeded. Fustration and anger are both necessary in games because it's those feelings which make you truly delighted when you succeed...  Unfortunetly, since OOT, games have become so easy that a huge part of the joy in completeting them isn't there anymore.I love this game.  I love this game.  I love this game.  I just got Ocarina of Time and it's been a few years since it has come out - it still rocks even in comparison to what's out now.  I've had a Playstation 2 for a couple of years and have had a good game here and there, but after playing Ocarina of Time, I realize that I had forgotten the beauty of Nintendo games.  They just have a special feel to them (and they make me remember the years that I was a little tike playing old Nintendo games).  I just beat the game about 5 minutes ago.  I certainly won't spoil anything, but I will tell you that the ending is over 30 seconds long and is something worth playing through the game to see...  A video game hasn't brought me this level of satisfaction in a while.  Bravo Nintendo, bravo.THIS GAME IS AS GOOD AS THE SOUNDTRACK AND MAJORA'S MASK. IT IS ONE OF THE BEST I'VE EVER PLAYED.I bought this microphone for the game Michael Jackson: The Experience to sing the songs. My niece and nephews love it. As soon as it arrived, we hooked it up right away.The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time may be difficult at times for some of the temples were designed to make you think but this game is the best game I have ever played in my entire life.
I have been playing nintendo for years and I have played some of the older Zelda games before but I never owned any, as soon as I tried this game - I immediately loved it and I've played it millions and millions of times.  I am so obsessed with it, I went out and pre-ordered the Wind Waker to get the Zelda bonus disc and renewed my subscription twice to Nintendo Power to get the Zelda Collector's Edition disc.
There is no need for me to review this game - all I really need to say is buy it.  You will not be disappointed (if you are a nintendo fan or have a brain).  Definitely be sure to get the follow up Majora's Mask and the Wind Waker.  A must play and Link is the best hero ever.I got this game a couple of years ago and I was completly shocked, it was really fun and addictive but takes you into a new world called Hyrule. Throughout the story, Link has to save Hyrule from Ganondorf who makes Hyrule look like the Devils mountain! But, if Link collects the right items, he might save Hyrule with the Princess of Zelda.
Graphics: 5/5 The colors really standed out with the houses, grassland, people etc!
Gameplay: 4/5 It was a challenging game, might be hard to follow through in controlling but Z-targeting helps you alot! Using new weapons such as swords, sheilds, bow n arrow, hookshot, etc was usfull in beating.
Storyline: 5/5 The story was copied by the old Zelda from Super Nintendo but made into a more better world. More places to explore, and more side quests to do!
Overall: 5/5 My opinon, I thought it was a game that everyone even Zelda fans should get it for your collection. Once you beat it, you can actually go for more side quests, items to get, and other things you missed.The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is, simply put, the best adventure game I have ever played. I'm a newcomeer to the Zelda series, so I'm not too sure how Ocarina rates with the others, but I love it. For an Nintendo 64, the graphics are absolutely beautiful. The lighting rivals that of a Playstation 2 or Xbox or Game Cube. The sound is terrific. Each different sound effect was done in detail. The sword against stone and the sword against wood are not the same as in a lot of games and sound just like they should. The echos when you enter the room and the monsters roaring in the distance are incredibly realistic and Link's footsteps are done perfectly. The puzzles are challenging, but not so that you want to through the controller down in frustration but so that you won't put the controller down until you've figured them out. The minigames and the sidequests will keep you playing long past the time you've beaten the game itself because they are so plentiful. The controls take some getting used to but are perfect for the game's combat system. The targeting especially helps the later you get into the game. The music is captivating and is very well done. Overall, I think this is one of the best games ever, not just in adventure. It's definetly a game anybody with a Nintendo 64 should have.This is truely the best game for 64 becuase link is so cool. This is probabaly the best zelda game. Ganondorf is the man and you beat him in this game. If you haven't played this game, i don't know but anyways in this one you could be big link and little link. Not like in majoros mask where you could only be little link. This game is way better than majoros mask. If you still have 64 (get a gamecube, so you can play windwaker)you need to get this great game.Ocarina Of Time is definitely the best game on the Nintendo 64. Super Mario 64,Perfect Dark and F Zero X are awesome but Ocarina Of Time is the best out of any other game on the system. What else is there to say about a game that changed the way we look at Role Playing games forever?The graphics are awesome(some Game Cube games don't look this good) the music adds excitement and the challenges are excellent. Whereas the difficulty in Super Mario 64 stayed pretty much the same throughout the game Ocarina Of Time gets harder when you get to be a better player. Also you get an extra heart after beating bosses because youll need it. Its very challenging I still haven't beaten it and am not sure if I ever will. Easy games can be a lot of fun but they just aren't as substantial as a game like this. The challenge makes it fun as well as the graphics and controls. Its just a great game and is a must for any Zelda fan or just someone who loves challenging games.This game is defently one of my top favorite games! I don't have it but i've rented it and it is cool. Your constantly under presure and near the end it feels like theres no where to go! In this game you shoot arrows,fight theifs,get a horse,venture in caves and much more challenges like deafeating the power hungry sorcerer Gannondorf! deffently 5 stars. Im planing on buying this game today.Really though, could an old, out dated game still be awesome 4 years later?  The answer is yes, because this game is just too good.  It gives you a complete story on Hyrule and the Triforce, not to mention the best video game music ever (especially the boss music).  Being able to play as young link and adult link in two similar, yet in a way completely different worlds as one would find out sooner or later.  The graphics are still, and when this was released, it was the best game graphicwise as well.  The bosses are easy, yet in a way challenging, and the dungeons and temples are amazingly designed.  However, there are two faults, one minor, one somewhat major.
-Link is missing the strap on his frontside that holds his sword case thingy!  Well, it just kinda looks odd.
-The "final boss" is far too easy...but don't be too sure of that...This last year of 2003 ET did a survey about the best video game series ever. Zelda one there poll and this game is one of the reasons why.
Ocarina of Time tells the continuing story of the Zelda universe. In the Zelda timeline it takes place before the other games. As usual you are the hero Link. You must save the princess Zelda. You have different quests you must finish and many obstacles that will block your way. The story is that Ganondorf the evil wizard is trying to take over the world. Equipped with the Ocarina of Time you will travel time in your quest to save Zelda, Hyrule, and the world.
This game is jam packed with stuff to do. I'd say you have a garunteed 40 hours of gameplay. It has all the classic Zelda weapons and more. You get to ride a horse across the country side and do some impressive underwater work. There are just so many impressive factors.
I love this game. I can't thing of words to describe how good it is. If you have an N64 your collection is not complete until this game is put in it.This title might be the best game ever. The best title for the N64 it is, beyond any doubts.
- Graphics: I haven't played much N64, but, for all I know, this is the best you can get in the plataform. Beautiful enviroment, landscapes, well-designed characters, different places and detailed textures for this plataform. The graphics are hot, I mean it! And you didn't even need graphics, this game would be great even without them. This game will be forever known because it has changed the world of games with such 3D graphics plus the lock-on camera, this game will be forever reminded because of that. Approved graphics.
- Sound: This game has the best soundtrack ever, if you ask me... Nearly every song in this game wins a 10/10 score. I really want to find a soundtrack for this game, because both the Ocarina songs and the in-game songs are awesome. Characters don't have voices, except when they scream, when they're scared and this kind of thing, so the voice acting isn't great. But the sound wins a 9/10 because of the nearly perfect soundtrack.
- Fun: This game touches you with a great story, great characters, great songs. You really feel as if you were Link in the beautiful land of Hyrule, and that makes the game so good that you can't say it's not fun. When you feel like the character, you just can't stop playing, even in the boring parts (in other words, the Water and Fire Temples). The different times you play and the many secrets hidden (I mean it, many secrets, I highly doubt you can get them all!) makes the game even greater, even more perfect.
- Educative: I really don't know why this game is rated E for Everyone... I feel like the game has some scary parts (in other words, the cemitery and the Shadow Temple), so it should be rated T for Teen, even though it has no great violence, no red blood (just green blood sometimes). But you parents shouldn't worry about that. This beauty must be taken to your children.
Overall, there's nothing to say. I don't know what you're doing reading my review if you haven't played this game yet. This is one of those games you must beat during your lifetime (The Wind Waker, the last game in the series, is very good, but it isn't nearly as good as Ocarina Of Time). It might take a long time for you to beat it if you're always busy, because the game is not short, but you must try. It'll be an unforgettable experience to be Link in Hyrule.This is one of the best games I have ever played.  I love the gameplay.  It was easy to control the character.  I also enjoyed how it wasn't a very easy game.  When a game is challenging, I play it more and more.  In fact, I still play this game today.  Very good game.This game is blew me away! I didn't expect Ocarina to meet with my standards after playing the previous Zelda games.  They usually go stale and predictable, but Ocarina didn't do that.  It's a game for true fans of the adventure genre!  The dungeons are long and perilous, there are numerous side-quests, a great cast of characters, and a large world to travel!  If you have any doubts about this game, eliminate them.  You won't be dissapointed!With almost three years in the making, how did The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time stand the test of time itself? As a prequel to the entire Legend of Zelda series, it has caught heavy anticipation. Ocarina is a prequel to the events before A Link to the Past. Link is a child, whose destiny is to save the land of Hyrule from Ganon (Gannondorf here) by traveling through time. You'll meet up with other characters in the adventure and interact will fellow Hylians, Kokiri, Zoras, and other civilations who aid you on your quest to save Hyrule. Ocarina of Time is one of those controversial games that the series has carried all along. In the end, the game is an Action/RPG, and should never be classified in the style of traditional, turn-based RPG's (like Final Fantasy).
New additions to the series are automatic jumping and Z-targeting. The emphasis of the Zelda games has always been puzzle-solving and dungeon arrangement. You also build your attributes, receiving items including the Ocarina, learning songs whose purposes range from teleporting to opening doors to time traveling. Along with mini-games, hidden items and side quests equal, its a worthwhile experience. Graphics-wise, Hyrule never looked better and most effects in Ocarina of Time are outstanding. No need for sharp visuals and smooth framerates, but rather focus on detail and designer talent. The real-time cutscenes and the passing of day and night are impressive. The sound also holds its own on this cartridge format. The themes of Zora's Domain and Gerudo Valley are music to the ears. Zelda fans will remember tunes of Kakariko Village and Zelda's Lullaby. A big plus is that all the sound effects from previous Zelda games have made a comeback.
In the end, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time makes the cut. Even though the gameplay consists mainly of dungeon-dwelling and puzzle-solving, the impressive graphics, quality sound and everything that's been obtained from previous Zelda titles will keep fans and non-fans alike entertained. It's fun.First off, this game is very good considering it had very good graphics (for an N64) and sound. Second of all, the storyline is the best I've seen in ages. The boy from the woods that no one knows becomes the Hero of Time... I would reveal more, but I do not want to spoil the game. Third, the gameplay and controls are easy to master, so you probably won't be swinging your sword at an enemy when you intended to throw bombs at it like games with complicated buttons. (; Fourth, the thing that makes Zelda, well, Zelda! The dungeons. The puzzles in them are chalenging and fun. The scenery in the dungeons (and everything else) is amazing. Fith, the enemies are unique and mystique, making the worlds you explore even cooler. Overall, this game is THE top must have of the N64 gaming system. ...From a graphics standpoint, this was and still is the best Legend Of Zelda ever. The story was great as well as the gameplay. All and all this was a great homecoming for the Hero of Hyrule. Great game from beginning to end. 10 stars.Wow... What can I say. As I'm writing this review, the popular  consoles right now are ps2, gamecube, and xbox. I have all of those. Yet no game on any of those systems are better than this. This is probably the best zelda ever(I have yet to buy the one for gamecube). Deciding between this and Majora's mask is a tough call, but I think this one gives a little more gametime.
  How should I begin to describe this game? It's deep, engrossing, and the graphics are spetacular for a N64. Yes the newer games right now definitely have better graphics than this, but this game beats all of them in terms of gameplay, music, and theme. The story is old, but hey, it's a classic formula. Why change it? What would Zelda be without dungeons? This is one of the few 3rd person games I've played with great controls. The z-targeting system can change a traveling mode Link instantly to a combat alert, and maneuverable Link. The music fits the moods perfectly, from the dark shadow temple to the light and cheery music of the lost woods, it's great. Buy it, it's worth your money, and it's probably the best game ever for N64.everything a video game is supposed to be! Lots visually diverse landscapes and effects, intriguing gameplay and endless oppotunities for exploration within the framework of the game. No boring moments here! The horse is certainly a nice touch (being a bit of a horse fanatic myself). Provides a fairly lifelike representation of horse riding. Nice soundtrack, and the interactive music play was quite satisfying. All in all a well designed game. Wish they were all this good!If you have an N64 you absolutely should have this game. It's a remake of the classic Zelda game from the good old NES and SNES systems with some added twists, new terrain and interesting characters.
If you have a GameCube I would recommend you pre-order The upcoming title "The Wind Waker" and if you do this right now Nintendo is offering a special deal where you can get a special release of "Ocarina of Time" for Game Cube. Not just the good old "Ocarina of Time," made famous on N64, but also an enhanced version called "Master Quest." Make sure to put both into your shopping cart and enter the correct code while checking out to capitalize on this great value.
Happy Hunting.Im not even that far(I just got past those guards)but I can tell this is a classic example of electronic excellence and is a classic that anyone lucky enough to know its out there can discover.This game is truly phenonemonal. From the amazing graphics (for what it is; a N64 game), to the music, to the challenging gameplay, to the engulfing storyline, the "Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time" is a must-play for any age. You start the game off as young Link (or whatever you want to call him), who lives in an enchanted forest where young never grow old. Inside the forest, there is a godly tree, who could be considered to be infinitly wise. The tree senses Link has the power to overthrow a great evil which is arising, and tests him to the dungeon inside of him. Link comes out, sucessful, and the tree tells him the story of the great evil which is arising. From then on, you play young Link, and must overcome many obstacles. As a child, there are 3 dungeons, and the tree's counts as one, so you're making some time, right? WRONG. There's much more to this game then beating dungeons. As a child, you can't acess as many of the things, but after you advance 7 years to the future and attain the Master Sword, many of these things are then open to you. As a child, you got an ocarina, in which you must learn songs on to access special places or do special things. Now, you can do all those things, and more. My personal favorite is Epona's song, in which you place a horse's (Epona) song, and it comes to you, in which you can ride across Hyrule Field to get to places twice as fast. As a child, you have weapons like a stick (whoopey), a sword, a shield, a sling-shot, and Duku Nuts. As an adult, you can handle 2 swords: the Master Sword, and the Giant Sword, which is so big you must handle it with 2 hands, which means no shield. You also have the hook-shot, Megaton Hammer, bow-and-arrows, and magic crystals you can do different things with. I cannot begin to explain how amazing this game is. I'd buy a Nintendo 64 all over again just for this. Now I have a Playstation 2, and I still have my Nintendo 64, but only play two games on it; this, of course, and Super Smash Brothers. Now, do yourself a favor, buy this game, and experience teh magic yourself.Thinking back on the times of Zelda, have got me thinking. The game was absolutely breath taking, I remember how fun and exciting it was, and it was so good, because of the challenge. If there is still anyone who has not played and beaten this game, please get it, it is totally worth the money. Then in 4 or 5 years, you too can think of what a great game Zelda was, but then you will feel bad for neglecting your Nintendo 64 and playing your PS2, but PS2's time for neglection will come in a few years also.Reading magazines from 1996-1998 one thing you couldn't escape was a some kind of mention of Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. It was all over the place. Popping this in my N64 when I took it home I spent literally 2 hours just exploring Kokiri Village just cause it was so fun. But then I realized "oh yeah there's more to this, isn't there?" And that's when the fun started.
Graphics: Although you can probably debate this, this has one of the best graphics you'll find on the system. Lot of areas just drop that "wow factor", like when you first enter Zora's Domain or the game's many cutscenes.
Sound: Although there's no voice, except for Navi's annoying "Hey!" and an occasional "Hello" from her or Link's grunts, it's got some awesome music. One thing I love is the short ocarina songs you play, such as Song of Storms, Zelda's Lullaby and Song of Time, plus general area music. Although the overworld music isn't like what it was on Link to the Past, it's still great.
Story: The story starts off with Link having a bad dream about a mysterious man and woman. Then Link is summoned to the Great Deku Tree where he fills Link in on his quest and it goes from there. Even though it can be a quite simple story, it's just a huge epic story that kept me interested.
Gameplay: The infamous Z-Targeting system that's spawned several developers to use it in their own games. The recent Star Fox Adventures uses this. Your C-Buttons are for your weapons. B is your sword and A is your action button(Talk, Jump, Climb,etc.). You'll know this system by heart cause Navi tells you how many times about it within the first hour. Camera is excellent and the Z targeting helps.
Even though you might be able to find this, I suggest you pick it up. Dust off your N64 and dive into what is one of the 90's most critically acclaimed and commercial masterpieces ever.You must own this if you like games. It's spectacular in every way, perfect. It creates a breathing world you care about and love, while having this awesome, deep story and Adventure.This game rules! It was very well conceived. The storyline is good, and the gameplay is awesome. I rented it before, and found out it is a game to buy and play. Trust me, you will get your money's worth! Good graphics, excellent sound scores, huge worlds, and good characters pull this game together. I am yet to find a game that matches it's surperiority, even Majora's Mask wasn't as good. I've beaten it several times through, and sometimes wish that I didn't know it like the back of my hand.This is a game you could fall in love with. When I first played it (immediatly after it came out) I was so engrossed and enchanted with it that it was like the real world disappeared and there was just me and the game. This never happened with me with a video game before. The scenery is breathtaking and some of the music scores are beautiful, although I think the music in the first forest dungeon as an adult is absolutely creepy! The dungeons are puzzling at times but not too hard, and the bosses are challenging enough you may have to try them several times, but don't worry you can eventually beat them. The game has a built in save feature so you don't need a memory card and you can save anywhere in the game, don't have to wait for any specific save point, that is real nice.
You start out as a 10 year old boy and then after 3 levels you travel through time and become an adult. Hyrule has changed and you need to save the land. You go through many levels and bosses to finally get to Gannon, the ultimate evil here. He is an improvement on the previous Gannon of previous Zelda games(looked like a little pig then!) and fighting him is more challenging and engrossing in this new game. There are other little side adventures thoughout the game to entertain you when you want a break from dungeons and monsters. This is a high quality game fun for kids and adults.Go out and buy it and play it yourself and see what I mean ok. The level's are great and there is alot to do. The places that you go are in the mountain's lake's valley's and in cave's and a little ranch somewhere? Link lives in Kokiri Forest.
In the game you have to get three stones somewhere. One in the Deku Tree and One in Goron City and One in the Zora's Domain. Some time in the game you will be older, by the time you look around the place will be dead.
You as Link and you have to save the world form evil form the evil king name Ganondori and his evil plan's before it's too late. And save a beautiful princess name Zelda. And you get to meet other characters in the game too some are cool some are big and some are small.
Buy the (The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of time Official Strategy Guide) it's a big help to me and you if you with it.
Everything Revealed to YOU.
PS. I know everything in the game do you. I PLAY IT AND I LOVE IT.I played this game and never wanted to stop. In my opinion, this is the best RPG game ever. It is fun just to play, and run around. The graphics are great, and it is just plain fun. What is also nice is that getting past certain parts of levels aren't very hard, and you don't get upset playing it.
Pros:
1) Great graphics
2) Great plot/storyline
3) Characters look great
4) Easy figuring out what to do
5) Just plain fun
Cons:
1) UmmmGAME TYPE: Role Playing
SYSTEM: N64
GRAPHICS: Awesome, especially for its time
DIFFICULTY: Moderate, it depends if you want all the items and secrets or not. Not hard just to beat however.
AGE RECOMMENDATION: 12 and up
CHARACTER QUALITY: Love them
PLAYBACK VALUE: There is always something fun left to do!
GOLD CARTRIDGE AVAILABILITY: I have one :P They don't make them anymore but you may be able to find one used.
Link, the courageous hero of time, must save Hyrule and Princess Zelda from the powerful wizard Ganandorf. Along the way Link will meet many people who can help him on his quest, as well as provide items and host mini-games to make it more fun. Can Link defeat Ganondorf and save the Triforce? Buy this game and become part of the adventure! Travel through time to play both child and adult Link. Ocarina of Time never gets boring or tedious, and is neither too hard nor too easy for any level of gaming skill. If you missed it in 1998, it's time to get it and get in on the action! The sequel, Majora's Mask, is also cool.I first started playing Ocarina of Time from a good friend of mine. The graphics are really cool and it shows realistic images of stories. I don't see why anybody would give this game only 1 star. I sure enjoyed the good pictures of this game. Next time I'm in a video game store. I am going to buy this game. First of all, the adventure begins when this little boy is at home sleeping. A fairy comes to him and wakes him up. Then you have to find this sword and find the Great Deku Tree. I never get tired of this game because you travel to different places accomplishing many tasks! There are many items you can use too!

  I think The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time is even better than most playstation and playstation 2 games! It is just that good to me.
  If you ever see this game in a store, buy it. You will have a good time with this game!Hey all you people, this game is an absolute good. Barely any flaws and it is like you are playing the game in reality. This is a 5 star game. Why, you ask? This is the proof:
1. Gameplay- It takes you a while to master the controls and stuff, but with practice, this wouldn't be frustrating at all!
2. Graphics- Great! As I said, everything is 3-D like the Deku Tree and Link himself. Take a look!
3. Lifespan- I heard that people who knows Zelda games really well could beat this in a week. But you guys out there that is starting a new adventure, would last forever for no boring parts of the game. There is a lot of words to say, but its worth it.
4. Fun-This game is a 99.8 fun game, in my opinion of course. I am stuck on the Deku tree of how to get past the spiders. See, challenging, and fun!
5. Sound-You gotta be kidding me! The Sound and music is great! Different sounds occur in different environments for the better!
Listen Closely!
6. Overall- This game is an absolute no miss game! Guranteed. This is a good game who likes RPG, or collects Zelda Games. This is, (I think) better than Majora's Mask. This Game Follows the Legend!!! Honestly.I'm what gamers call a "Zelda Veteran" , I've played almost ALL of the Zelda games and managed to beat only one: this one.  I love the Zelda games because they are challenging, different and fun to play.
  In this one, Link lives in a forest with the forest folk.  Link is soon inside the Deku Tree to defeat the evil monsters that moved into the tree.  After a battle with the queen spider, the Deku Tree sadly dies and tells Link to find Zelda, the Princess of Hyrule.
  Hyrule is a kingdom that's always in trouble, and its up to Link to save the land from a terrible enemy.  Link has the help of Navi, a fairy that gives you advice or tells you what you should do next.
  During his adventures, Link will learn spells, be swallowed by a huge fish, and saving the land from the evil Ganondorf.  This game is a classic and worth the money.Once again, Hyrule is being threatened by the forces of evil! As Link, the chosen hero you solve countless puzzels, and fight many, many, monsters! This game has about everything! Good graphics, great gameplay, and a wonderful story.
Ganondorf, the evil in the game, needs to get the tree spiritual stones to open the Tempe of Time. He threatened the people who have them, but they didn't give him the stones. Link goes on quests to get the tree stones. Once he gets them and Zelda, the princess, gives him the Ocarina of Time,  he opens the Temple of Time. But little does he know, Ganondorf followed him.
Seven years later link wakes up and Ganondorf rules Hyrule. He spreaded five of the six medallions and had monsters gaurd them. You get the only medallion Ganondorf didn't have and go on a quest to find the others.
This game is great and has a wonderful selection of weapons and other things. I highly recommend it and for anyone who has a Nintendo 64, get this game for your 64 collection isn't complete without it.I remember all the hype surrounding The Legend Of Zelda: The Ocarina Of Time like it was just yestarday. The Zelda franchise has always been among the best to grace any video game system, and with the power of the soon-to-be-released Nintendo 64, the series was finally going to reach its next step: the third dimension. This (along with other titles like Super Mario 64 and Mario Kart 64) got both gamers and the press excited about the N64 and the upcoming Zelda game. While the Nintendo 64 never quite managed to live up to all its prerelease hype, The Legend Of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time managed to not only live up to its respected hype, but in many ways surpass it.
What makes TOOT special IMO is the fact that it is the first game (that I've played) where you truly feel like a part of its world. Many games tried hard to accomplish this feat, including previous Zelda titles, but TOOT was the first game to finally get it right. Even the later Majora's Mask never quite managed to create the immersive world TOOT did.
Much of the game's feeling stems from the interactivity of its world. You can spend hours exploring a certain area and still have not seen everything there is to see. For example, many of the game's locations have these hidden holes you can jump into and find hidden goodies (as well as hear some pretty haunting music). Once you obtain the Stone Of Agony, however, you find out that these randomly placed secrets are only the beginning. I won't go into too much detail here since you need to play the game for yourself to really appreciate it. Another thing that makes this game feel more realistic than previous Zeldas is character interaction. Remember how decidedly generic a lot of the NPCs in Zeldas II and III were? In TOOT, each and every NPC is given at least some sort of personality so that you can easilly distinguish him/her from the rest of the game's characters as well as once again feel like you're a part of Hyrule. And of course, the third dimension (the dimension we live life through) helps the game a great deal.
The gameplay is equally great. I especially liked how you can hold three items at a time rather than just one, which is especially helpful in the game's dungeons which often require you to use several different weapons/items. Speaking of which, the dungeons have some of the most clever puzzles and interesting layouts of any game I had ever played. And I really liked how once you completed all the puzzles in a dungeon, you opened a new path from its starting point straight to the final boss, rather than simply having to run through the entire dungeon all over again after death the way you did in previous Zeldas (this was especially annoying in A Link To The Past, where the dungeons were much longer and more challenging than in the original Legend of Zelda). And of course, the game's graphics are among the N64's best (not necessarely because of how detailed/realistic they are, but how carefully crafted and full of life they are), and the soundtrack is among the best ever to grace a video game (even with the Star Fox 64-quality midi samples).
In brief, The Legend Of Zelda: The Ocarina of Time is an excellent game. If you own an N64 and have not already picked this game up, I strongly suggest you do. If you do not even own an N64, than the system's worth picking up just for this one game and its semi-sequal Majora's Mask.THIS IS THE MOST ABSOLUTE SUPERIOR GAME EVER MADE! You have almost no limits as to what you can do and there is always another secret or trick you can learn! Not only this but there are no limits to the fun you can have with this game. I enjoy the challenges and puzzles and new items and moves you have to get. If you are going to buy a game for Nintendo 64 this is the game to buy!!!Before I played this game, the only other Zelda game that I had ever played was Link to the Past, and I couldn't understand it that well.  I decided to play this because of the hype.  I was sure glad I did.  This is one of the best games ever!  It's full of adventure, it has a wonderful story, and it is challenging.  It begins with Link, a 10-year-old Kokiri (child of the forest) who is chosen to save Hyrule, his home world.  Along the way, you meet new friends, such as Princess Zelda, and grow into a 17-year-old adult to fight the evil Ganondorf!  You have many different weapons, spells, and items at your disposal, including swords, bows, and a giant hammer.  The fun never stops and the story never goes flat.  If you want a grand adventure, buy this game.  If you like this, play The Legend Of Zelda: Majora's Mask, but wait until you finish this game.I have to say this is the absolute best Legend of Zelda so far...  But there is one thing I have to clarify THIS IS NOT THE FIRST LEGEND OF ZELDA!!!  The first came out on the NES and is Great to play....  This one has good control, fun plot, and will get you so wrapped up in it, you'll come screaming back for more.This game is just sickeningly good and nothing else since has matched it's gameplay, depth, charm, design and atmosphere. It is absolutely flawless and perfect.
When it came out 3 years or so ago i was hooked to it immediately and i finished it in about a month. But since then i finished it around 10 more times and i still enjoy playing the full game today after 3 years! It is that good. The controls are absolutely perfect and the targeting system works perfectly for most combat situations.
 The atmospehere of the levels of the game is just the best ever in a game to date. For example in the mysterious forest the Lost Woods, u can actually feel it's mystery from the excellent music getting louder as u reach it's source and the way the whole place is designed.
No videogame fan has an excuse not to play or own this. Words cannot describe my love for this game. (Sounds stup[id but it's true) You will so nostalgic even when u meet the characters again for the 20th time. It is just a gaming masterpiece and i doubt it will be bettered for a veeeeerrryy long time to come unless the new gamecube zelda follows the same direction and improves it with a larger interface and new fresh ideas.
BUY IT it or u will miss out on the best game ever. yes the best game ever..  all i can say is if u haven't for some reason BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT...In this, one of two installments in the Zelda series for the Nintendo 64, you once again take on the persona of young Link (or whatever you choose to name him), as he embarks on a quest to save the land of Hyrule from the dark forces of Ganon.  One of the great conflicts in Nintendo history, second only to that of Mario and Bowser.  You start the quest as a boy and end up as a man.  Along the way, you will fight many monsters, explore dungeons and temples, rescue a horse (great for traveling through the world of Hyrule quickly), engage in numerous side quests and mini-games, learn many different tunes for your Ocarina, pick up a number of weapons and other helpful items, meet some gorgeous fairies, and in short, have a wonderful gaming experience.
As with the other Zelda games, this one is filled with different puzzles of various types, most of which you MUST complete in order to advance in the game.  They are engaging, but not too difficult to figure out, for the most part.  There are a few, though, that I had a tough time with.  Not to fear, though, there is plenty of help out there, both in books and on the internet, to aid you through those difficult spots.  The controls are wonderfully intuitive.  Navigating through Hyrule is much like controlling Mario in Super Mario 64 (and the game does, at times, suffer from awkward camera angles like Mario did), and there are good tutorials in the game itself that teach you the ins and outs of fighting monsters and defending yourself.
The Z-targeting system is excellent, once you get used to it.  You don't really need it for some of the early monsters, but by the time you become an adult, it will be essential.  In addition, you have a little fairy buddy, Navi, who continually travels with you and is always willing to give you helpful advice on what to do next after you complete a given task.  Navi will also help you with advice on the weak spots of the many different monsters you will encounter throughout the game.
As I mentioned before, there are a number of side quests throughout the game.  They're not essential to finish the game, but they are a lot of fun, and some of them will get you prizes that will make the later stages of the game a little easier.  One word of advice - when you reach Lake Hylia, be sure and talk to the two scarecrows!  Later in the game, you will be glad you did.  Also, be wary of purchasing too many items in the various shops and bazaars.  They have many useful items, but they are also VERY expensive, and almost everything in there can be found for free in various nooks and crannies in the game.  Also, be wary of Gorons who want to sell you a Giant Sword.  Don't say I didn't warn you...
Although you do not NEED a Rumble Pak to play the game, your gaming experience will be enhanced if you get one.  The Pak will be set off whenever Link gets near a secret area, which are sprinkled liberally throughout Hyrule.  These secret areas contain goodies that you really don't want to miss out on.
All in all, an excellent game which showcases the abilities of the N64 to great effect.  Games like this are why I will always remain a Nintendo fan.  But, don't take my word for it - pick it up!  You'll be glad you did.This is by far the best Zelda installment yet. Much more fun than Majora's Mask, mainly because you can freely explore the world of Hyrule. (see review of Majora's Mask)
This game can be fun for anyone.Ok, I figured I'd throw in my opinion as well. Mainly, this review is for people who have not played the game yet and are wondering if they should. Perhaps you aren't too into RPGs or whatever, so it is my job to convince you! First off, it's more of an RPG/adventure combination, since it doesn't use conventional RPG techniques like turns or experience. But that is a good thing, because the way the game is structured allows for near-total freedom as you play it. Yes, like some people have said, you must beat the dungeons in a certain order, but there are about a million other things you can do whenever you want, and that just expands the boundaries of this game even more. It is truly the greatest game I have ever played, that is no exaggeration. The graphics and the sound are wonderful, the puzzles are NOT as easy as some people are saying -- the Water Temple is maddening! -- and the character development and depth of play is unmatched.
Majora's Mask is almost as good, but what makes Ocarina of Time better, in my opinion, is the fact that it is sort of the "ultimate" Zelda game, meaning it starts from the beginning and recreates the entire story of Link and Zelda and Ganon, and it is a completely stand-alone and definitive game. Majora's Mask, on the other hand, takes place right after the events of Ocarina of Time and has a very different structure. The three-day cycle you must live through makes for an extremely enjoyable game, but the only downside is you can't take your time and relish everything like you can in Ocarina of Time.
Either way, though, Ocarina of Time is a beautiful game.This is the best N64 (R.I.P.) game I have ever played. It's full of vast 3D worlds, cool characters, and has a deep storyline. The worlds are huge. Take Hyrule Field, A place which has absolutely nothing to do with the story but going there to get new places, is soooo much fun. When you aren't doing anything and are just playing around, you can have hours of fun running around hunting skullkids and running from those flying spikey flower thingies. When you're an adult, you can hunt poes (ghosts) in the field and get rewards and stuff for it! Anyway, the story is about a boy named Link who is destined to save his home world, Hyrule, from A powerful wizard. The wizard wants to get ahold of the Triforce, an ancient artifact which has the power to alter the world. He does, and changes the world to a "hell". Link then has to go through many dungeons and meet many people and eventully save his land of Hyrule and return peace. That's about it. Peace.This is the 2nd best Nintendo 64 game to date right behind Golden Eye 64. We all know that Golden Eye 64 is impossible to top, but this comes damn near close.
Zelda Ocarina of Time is a classic. Five stars plus. Matter of fact this is the best Zelda release I have ever played. And I have played them all.
The graphics really show what the Nintendo 64 is capable of putting out along with other classics like Mario 64 and Golden Eye. The graphics are amazing and are top notch.
The storyline is even better. Most good RPGs have more than just one single character. This game however only has Link and still manages to become a classic like most of the other Zelda titles. No this game is no Final Fantasy IIV, but in a way this game is better. Maybe not as long, but the storyline is a little bit more creative and catchy.
Ocarina of Time offers a little bit more "extras" than the previous Zelda titles have to offer. You can collect extra items along the way for personal score to see how good your discovering ability is, and not just finding pieces of hearts. There are so many secrets with this game.
I would suggest you don't use the strategy guide until you have completed the game. If you do, then you are cheating yourself and making the game not even worth playing. Beat the game and then look at the guide to see what you have missed.
Overall, I spent a lot of time on this game. I could have beaten it a lot faster, but that wouldnt be any fun, because the fun part is discovering the secrets within the game itself.
Buy the game and see for yourself. This isn't exactly a hard challenge of a game, but it isn't exactly that simple either. Just right. Get it today!Zelda Ocarina of Time is a fantastic game,the different worlds are well made,the day and night thing is very nice,the characters are great,(I actually hated the bad guy),including the horse to move inside the different worlds is a good idea and the music is beautiful,my husband was always with his back at the tv,because he uses to use the computer when I play games and he just couldn't believe how good the music is,he kept turning and looking to see what was I playing with such music,you do feel that you are in a fantasy world playing this game,wich I thought it was very cool,and aren't those little fairies cute?.
Really,I recommend this game,no matter what kind of game genre is that you play,you'll love this one!!.Quite possibly, if you don't know why then you haven't played many videogames ;-)simply the best.  great story, great graphics, great control, great replay value.  it is true, n64 wasn't that great of a system, with pretty horrible games.  i bought it back in 98 and up until i got my ps2 i only bought a few games for it,  Zelda: ocarina, Zelda: Majora, Goldeneye, Perfect Dark, and DK64.  There may be other good games but this game is by far the best, not just on n64  but possibly out of all video games ever.  trust me people, if i say it is good, it is good.  I don't give out good reviews very easily.Ocarina of Time is the finest game made for the Nintendo 64.  It is possibly the finest video game made to date.  This beautiful 3D world will challenge even the most jaded gamer.  The dungeons and temples are beautifully rendered, and each has a remarkably executed theme.  The storyline for the game is a typical Zelda story of Link vs. Gannon, but the execution and the gameplay keep it head and shoulders above the rest.  You would be doing yourself a disservice to own a Nintendo 64 console without this phenomenal game.awesome storyline, awesome graphics. perfect game! great challenge, but not too challenging that you cant beat it. Thanx nintendo for the greateast game ever made!! Great game for all ages! highly recommended!!This is the 2nd best game I've ever played! Even if I like Excitebike 64 more, I can't wait until I can get this! I don't have it, but my brother and I got all the way to Forest Temple from the start in just 3 days. Then we had to return it. But It's my favorite Zelda game ever.This is one of the best games!  You have to play it.  It is definitely the best game in the Zelda series so far.  It has adventure, romance, mystery, and SO many subquests.  It's about a boy named Link who has a destiny.  He lives in Kokiri Village, a little tiny village in the land of Hyrule.  Anyway, a little fairy named Navi comes and says that he must meet the Deku Tree.  He does and the Deku Tree tells him to go inside the Deku Tree and destroy all of the evil monsters inside him.  Link does this and the Deku Tree gives him the Kokiri Emerald, or the Spiritual Stone of Forest.  The Deku Tree phrophesies that Ganondorf, an evil desert Gerudo man, is trying to get hold of the Triforce, the essence of life in Hyrule.  But in order to get hold of the Triforce you have to get three of the spiritual stones.  Unfortuantely, after the tree's prophecy, he died because of the curse Ganondorf had cast upon him.  But Link and Navi go on their journey and get the Goron's Ruby, or Spiritual Stone of Fire and the Zora's Sapphire, or Spiritual Stone of Water.  Link gets the Ocarina of Time but when he opens the doors Ganondorf gets in before him and he gets the Triforce.  Link waits seven years in the Chamber of Time and when he awakes he's all grown up.  Rauru, the Sage of Light is there and tells him that he must save all the Sages from their temples and receive the medallions.  He receives the Medallion of Light, Forest, Fire, Water, Shadow, and Spirit.  But the game.  It's definitely one of the best N64 games around!THE BEST N64 GAME. It's easy, difficult to totally master, and is fun to play again and again. The bosses are creative and original, and the dungeons are fun and easy. Storyline is pretty good, better than the "save the princess" generalization it's often given. The characters are a quiet hero of time, an eternally youthful forest girl, a wild rock man from the firey Death Mountain, a rebellious fish woman, a determined royal guard, a sexy thief, the "princess", and of coure, Ganon the bad guy.this is a game that is perfect it is so fun to play at times when the sun gos down u can do a lot of stuff in this game its very cool its got 20 hole hours of this game there are good ponits in this game very nice game GREAT MUSIC better then zelda 2 for the n64 this game has much more to have even if u think u have gotton all moneys and more u have much more for this game it is a must have n64 game lovers u will want this MASTER GAME for your system.Zelda 64 is defenetly one of my favorite games for the N64.  It has a fairly good story, it's interesting enough to make you want to know what happens next, and it has a gameplay that's unbeatable.  The combat system is very simple and great.  You have your z locking on system which makes killing enemies a piece of cake.  There is so much to do in this game that it's comaprable to a good RPG, something that N64 hasn't been blessed with yet.  The graphics are pretty good, especially since they don't use the expanssion pack, and the world is just huge.  One down side is that some puzzles in the caves can be pretty tough, and sometimes, you may feel lost and don't know what to do next. The bosses look very impressive and get more challenging as you progress through the game.  This game will defently take a couple months to beat, unless you play 24/7.  After you master the game, then it'll just take a couple of days, like any other normal, or great game.  Nintendo has defenetly done a great job with this one.  One thing I didn't like about it is that it has gotten eaiser than it's predicessors. I've started playing Zelda games since the SNES days.  Back then, it was Zelda: A Link to the Past.  The game was tough.  I'll admit it, it took me a year to beat that. That game was also HUGE.  But now, 3D has made things eaiser, which I like and don't like.  But another thing I don't like.  They keep on changing the whole story of Zelda. Those of you who played the SNES game will know what I'm talking about.  There, Link didn't live in a forest, and there wasn't a guardian fairy.  And the whole world changed too.  Well, maybe it's for the best, but I wouldn't mind if they made a remake of it, maybe for the GBA?.....An excellent game for those (like me) who like adventure and a new challenge. Zelda will leave you amazed. In the game you must save your world by fighting evil monsters, solving puzzles, beating bosses and temples etc., and getting the items and weapons etc. you need in order to achieve these and other goals.
You are the world's last hope! Can you save everyone and defeat the evil Ganondorf in this breathtaking adventure game?!The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of time is the best zelda game there is! You go from being a kid, to being an adult! Link must beat five temples as an adult, the forest temple, the fire temple, the water temple, the shadow temple, and the spirit temple. The bosses are awsome, and all the characters are cool!The first Zelda game for the 64, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of time won game of the year for 1999.  As Link, your quest to save the tri-force from the evil Ganondorf will take you all over Hyrule, not only in the present, but also the future with the help of the Ocarina of time.  If you like the Zelda series, this game is definently for you (or even if you just like to save the world in your spare time:])There are no problems with it, it works great for Rock Band, detects an accurate pitch and everything.In its tenure, the N64 had its share of bad games. With exceptions like Super Mario 64, the THQ wrestling games and a few others, it seemed like the bad outweighed the good. But with 'Ocarina of Time', the balance took a drastic shift as n64 was given its best overall game.
'Ocarina of TIme' has many strong points for itself. For one, the player is given a very challenging and extremely satisfying quest to undertake. The game plays across a vast world with different subsections, each with their own particular themes. The gameplay is easy to get used to and becomes second nature as you play through the game. Graphics and sounds are done extremely well, considering the cartridge space allowed.
There is not much to complain about, as this game really showed players what the N64 was capable of. It's unfortunate that other game publishers didn't work this hard. But then again, "Ocarina" is a tough act to follow.Zelda: Ocarina of Time is a well-made game that perfectly blends battle sequences and puzzles.  The battles, which can only be won using the right method against the right enemy, are simplified by Z-Targeting, which aims all attacks at the enemy.  It takes a long time to beat (months), as any good RPG (Role-Playing Game) should.  Unfortunately, it constantly and inevitably reminds you of the controls, although they're pretty easy, in messages which you usually must read.  I suggest this for all people, especially those that enjoy a good challenge.The best game I ever play.  In fact, I beat this game in a week.  It's a good deal and is worth the money.(big time)Although the Final Fantasy series was pretty good, no other RPG can compare to this.
With a very long storyline, and if you don't have a strategy guide handy, there's a possibility that it might take a while to finish the game completely.
The features are just amazing. At some points, you are required to move into the future 7 years, where Link is a full-grown adult, and sometimes back 7 years to advance in your journey. As an adult, some things will have changed. And when day turns to night and vice versa, some things will change that will be different when compared to the same place, only in the daytime.
The battles are intense. And as for the boss battles, the bosses have a variety of options that they can do, and to effectively defend, you usually have to be prepared for any "curves" that they throw at you.
Legend of Zelda: OoT holds a lot of replay value. Even after I've finished the game, I'm still having a great time.
Overall, Legend of Zelda: OoT is probably one of the best RPGs available. Would be definitely worth buying and would also make a wonderful gift!I have played all the other Zelda Series Games and this is the best.  I first heard of this game when I borrowed it from a friend.  I played it nonstop, until I beat the game.  The only hard part about it is the dreaded Water Temple.  It is the only actual hard one, but don't get me wrong the rest of the dungeons are equally difficult.  Even the first level is as difficult because you have only your sword, shield and wits.  But as you progress you gain pieces of hearts, weapons, swords, shields, and other tools.  The graphics are really cool, the sound could be just a tad better, and the fun is the best.  The only bad part is you can't unfreeze Zora's Domain and get the Triforce, or Miyamoto says.  Well if you liked the other Zelda games, this is a must have.  If you never have played a Zelda game get a life!For all those of you that have followed the lineage of Zelda from its early days on the classic 8-bit system, and onward to its SNES days with "A Link to the Past" (great game), and loved every second of it, then you have to buy this game! For those of you that have never played any other Zelda game, what are you waiting for? Now is a great time to start.
Ocarina of Time is amazing. All the elements of classic Zelda are there - dozens of powerful items and weapons, lots of secrets to find, at least 10 new 3D-rendered challenging dungeons, plenty of secrets and side-games, and something that all the other Zelda's never had: a truly great story!
If you enjoyed "A Link to the Past" you will most certainly like this game as well. The story of Ocarina of Time involves going back and forth in time, between a happy peaceful Hyrule, and a dark evil one, much like ALTTP; but don't think this is a rip-off on its predecessor. The complex dungeons, challenging bosses, and deepening story lines will blow you away. The 3D element of the game also adds so much more that was never possible before. Even the music is catchy and well orchestrated. (I actually downloaded the mp3 soundtrack online!)
The gameplay is a little tough to get used to - afterall, you've never played Zelda in 3D before - so you actually have to consider things sneaking up behind you, and flying overhead! But once you get used to the controls and learn to use the "Z-Targeting" feature (using the trigger button will solve just about any control problem you may encounter), the gameplay gets easier.
The only thing that annoyed me was Navi, a little fairy that travels with Link throughout the game. She is always bugging you to give you painfully obvious information. I suppose she is a helpful guide for younger or more inexperienced players, but I found her annoying. But once you come to realize that Navi is an important aspect of the game's control, you will let it slide.
I would recommend this game to anyone who owns an N64 console, and even more so if you enjoyed SNES's "A Link to the Past." I can't wait to play the sequel when it comes out.I confess- i've never played a single Zelda game before this- cause i wasn't into RPG games, but i'm so glad i never gave this a miss. One day, i  just felt like playing this game and i bought it and it's terrific, no  maybe better than terrific, it's too good to be true.
I spent 4 good  months playing this game and i finally beat it recently but that hasn't  stopped me from planning round 2 and buying the brady guidebook to find all  the secrets.
This game is also filled with charatcer interaction and  drama. I think you can read Amazon's review for the storyline and i'll just  encourage you to buy this game if you haven't.
It's a player's choice  game and coming from Nintendo- i am not surprised it's this good. I'm gonna  get Majora's mask when it comes out this winter and i hope to see this game  on the Dolphin.
If you are hooked and want to relive the magic- go get an  old NES or SNES from your cousins or someone and buy the previous Zelda  games and you'll see why Zelda's a classic.
Like Mario, Zelda has a huge  following and blah blah...i don't need to elaborate on the game's success  anymore.
As far as fun/gameplay/story/graphics/sound/replay is concerned,  it's a safe bet to say that i will give every category at least 9.5 out of  10.
I'll only give it a 10 when they put in FMV and put to rest once and  for all, that Zelda is the definitive standard-RPG and action-RPG and not  Final Fantasy. Sorry guys, i had to say it- it's true.
Now if only  Majora's Mask would arrive sooner...oh i can't wait!Works good! recognizes my voice well and I have no issues playing Rockband besides just not being good at vocals in general! 10/10 would buy again!Made in 98, but still better quality, play, and design than most games on the market in '05.  Good storyline, great AI and graphics, not-overly aggressive system requirments, tons of add-ons available.  Incredible single player mode, good weapon selection, and arguably one of the best FPS online games of all time.  If you like HALO, you will like Halflife.  Very similar, but no limit on how many weapons you can carry, and the levels aren't as repetative.  (My biggest complaint about Halo, though it's obvious why, many of the levels and hallways are exact copies of one you've seen dozens of times already...gives a feeling of being lost, and even fed up at times.) Halo does have the edge as far as cars and what not though. I also recommend Halflife 2, the sequel to what I'm talkin about here...  INSANE graphics and gameplay.Half Life Revolutionized PC gaming.  It is one of the greatest IF not The best pc game ever made.  It has bin said that from almost every Pc Mag or Game mag.  I was a few to own this masterpiece when it first hit stores and all I can say is...wow

This game really changed about the FPS gaming.  It just made me think different about FPS.  It truly is a masterpiece.  I won't spoil this games amazing story of the g man's adventure.  I won't even say how good this game is you just have to play it for your self.

The graphics for that time was amazing and so will the upcoming HALF LIFE 2 BABY!  nuff said

The gameplay.......You're a moron if You acctually think I'm gonna go into that since we already no how incredible the game is....Nuff' said

The story is what makes this game...a game..it's not just any shooter...it's history in the making..well for games atleast...

I'm just gonna make this short and sweet for you...

THIS GAME IS AMAZING!

Of course this deserves a

5 out of 5 stars!!!!!!!

Amazing...Just amazing...Nuff said get the game before HL2 comes out..

Lates..posibly the best game i ever played !
this game is great, u may think u should just rent it, but dont.
This game is so long it took me bout 2 months to pass it.
there is a great storyline.
i played all of HL games and this is the best one.
for example in half life 1 u get to a radio, and a soldier says there to retreat. if u play opposing forse ull see this guy saying same thing to abort and same voice.
great story line, great wepons, great multiplayer.
trust me ull never get tired of this game.
GET THE GAME!!!
P.S.: you won't regret this.I usually turned off all lights and played game in deep night after a whole-day work, even on bloody Quake I or Doom II, it is ok. And I was for a long time a Quake II fan, esp. in single player mode. With numerous add-on levels distributed on the web, I thought the 3D-shooter game has  reached the limit in Quake II. But alas, what a game the Half-Life is!  I  DARE NOT played it in the deep night alone with all lights off. With a very  good storyline and excellent atmosphere, the game is horrible!  You never  know what the next step will be. The monsters are not stupidly standing  there waiting for your bullets, instead they are chasing and hunting you.  It is simply the best single player 3d shoot game so far.I was never a big fan of the first-person shooter (FPS) genre, but after giving Half-Life a try (thanks to all of the glimmering reviews), I am absolutely hooked. From the opening tram sequence, you're mesmerized by  Gordon Freeman's plight and the falling Black Mesa world surrounding him.  It's a game that keeps you in a trance from midnight to the first crack of  sunlight (apologies to my wife!). After dishing out punishment to those  Marines, be sure to frag some people in the outstanding multiplayer modes.  The fun gets even better, and the taste of death is even sweeter when you  blow apart that guy with 196 kills. Half-Life is truly a work of art.  Opposing Forces, here I come.Even though this game is so good,I think you should get Spyro 1 first. Spyro the Dragon gets you to a demo that leads to this. I know you'll like it. If you have Spyro 1 then try the demo! That is what I did.Crash is one of the best games ever made. This is way over priced though. If some one buys this then they are stupid because you can find it for a lot cheaper. Luckily I still have all the crash games since I played them when I was a kidI love this game I played it and beat it in 1:00:00 hour  I did not get any of the relics though I love playing as coco on a jet ski and running across the great wall of China I did each level and boss and I loved it I played it all the way through with no gems and relics. I give this a strong 5 stars out of 5.The last main-line Crash game in the PS1. Similar in style to Crash 2 but with added vehicle segments.Well lets end the Crash Bandicoot trilogy on PlayStation with Crash Bandicoot 3: Warped. This game was released in 1998 and was once again, developed by Naughty Dog, published by Sony Computer Entertainment and distributed by Universal Interactive Studios. It was originally a PlayStation exclusive but was later re-released as a PS One Classic on the PlayStation Store.
 The games story takes place immediately after the events of the second game in which the ruins of the Cortex Vortex come crashing down to Earth and lands on a temple unleashing an evil entity known as Uka Uka who is Aku Akus evil twin brother; Aku Aku is the mask that helped Crash out in the first two games. Uka Uka joins with Doctor Neo Cortex and Doctor Nefarious Tropy as they plan to gather Crystals in their original places in time and use their energy to enslave the Earth.
 The game is once again a platformer with pretty much the same kind of controls as the second game. You can not only play as Crash but also as his sister Coco who was a supporting character in the second game. You travel back and forward in time to gather the 25 Crystals from the previous game in their original places in time before the enemy does; but don't worry, the levels are completely different from each the second game. The game takes place in the Time-Twisting Machine which acts as the hub area of the game. The machine is split into five chambers with only the first chamber being available at the start. Each chamber has five buttons that open portals to different levels. The goal is the same as the second game; obtain the crystal hidden in the area. Some crystals can be obtained in the middle of the level or by completing a certain task such as winning a race. The gems are also back and can only be obtained by destroying all the boxes, or completing a hidden level or task. Once you obtain the five crystals in a chamber, a sixth button will appear that warps you to a boss who will fight you in order to get the crystals back. By defeating the boss, the next chamber will become available to play. By defeating a boss you unlock a new power, theres the Super Slam which makes your body slam more powerful, the double jump, a tornado twister which lets you glide for a short period, a bazooka launcher which can be used to destroy crates or enemies or collect fruit and one ups and the running shoes which allow you to sprint.
 The newest main feature in the game is the Relics which can only be retrieved in a time trail mode for every level in the game. After you obtain a levels crystal, you can go back to the level and collect the yellow clock at the beginning to start a time trail. The goal is to reach the end as fast as you can, but there are some differences: There are yellow time boxes that when destroyed will stop the clock for a short period of time, there are no checkpoint boxes so if you die, you have to start the level from the beginning; but there are plenty of Aku Aku masks to help you and thats pretty much it. It proves to be very challenging and getting the Platinum relics is insanely difficult and even I never managed to get all of them.
 This game proves to be the best one in the entire series and one of my favorite games overall, period. I would highly recommend getting this game off the PlayStation Store for $6, this is a MUST PLAY. It really is one of the best.
FINAL RATING:  10 out of 10I'm so glad I was able to buy this game at a great price. I really enjoyed reliving my childhood.three years after I bought this game the children still play it every weekend, clearly a winner in their booksCRASH is my favorite videogame character.. i remember playing it when it first came out with my sister on the PS1 waaaaay back.... This is SO fun. I love this game!!!!!! JUST BUY ITTTTThis is a great game! I played this all the time when I was younger and had to have it now as an adult! Play it all the time!This microphone hooked right into the Xbox and worked on par with all expectations.First off I've only owned two Crash Games. The first Crash Bandicoot and Wrath of Cortex for the PS1. I played a demo for Warped on my Spyro the dragon game and wanted it ever since. I bought it on Amazon and its safe for me to say that...THIS IS THE CRASH I KNOW AND LOVE!^_^

 For those who don't know Crash Bandicoot first came out in the 90's as a standard, straight-forward platformer. You're a mutated Bandicoot named Crash who escapes from the evil mad scientist Dr. Neo Cortex and must go back to save your girlfriend. In Warped Dr. Cortex now works for Uka Uka (The brother of Aku Aku) an evil mask that wants to destroy crash and take over the world. He instructs Cortex to go through time and collect Crystals and Gems that hold extreme power. Crash has to literally race through time and jump, spin, and dance his way through time to retrieve them before Cortex gets ahold of them.

 This game is just as fun as the first one. It brought me back to a time where video games concentrated more on gameplay and content rather than graphics which games today seem to concentrate almost too much on. The controls are spot on. You can build momentum for jumps, move in any direction, and really I never had problems with the controls even in the first Crash. One thing I REALLY love about this one is that I don't feel bad when I die! This game has some really interesting death scenes rather you're forcibly kissed by a frog that changes into a prince, eaten by lions, thrown into the screen by a two-headed fat person, or so on. When I finish the game I plan on seeing how many ways I can die:) Some worlds replicate each other but are harder and take more and more skill to get through. The boss battles are really diverse and take strategy, timing, and skill to get rid of. I must confess I found the first boss and 2 worlds extremely easy. Its not until the 3 that the game just goes "F*** this! I'm gonna make your time a living hell"! Its still way easy so far compared to the first game though which really did what I said above. I also noticed something that first caught my attention in Wrath of Cortex. The game seems extremely open when it comes to lives. Seriously I'm not even half way through the game and all ready up to 50 almost. I guess I'm that good at playing. Im definately buying the second one.

 I admit I'm disappointed at the way the turn the series have made. I wish they kept it as a patformer and just added maybe some adventure elelments to it like they did Twinsanity (even though its glitchy as hell). Naughty Dog where did you go? Crash Bandicoot Warped is just what I expected it to be. Its funny, addicting, challenging and overall just shows graphics don't make the game, but its content and gameplay.Can't review this title now cuz I still haven't officially finished CRASH's 1&2, I bought it TO HAVE!! I'm a classic game collector at heart, don't know when I'll start playing but i will eventually. Now that it's in my library.I would say this is one of the the best ps1 games ever. I play it on my ps3.
It is fun from riding a tiger to running around spinning bad guys. This is child friendly but also adults love it.
It has good graphics, good gameplay, good ideas and lots of levels and replay value. Get this you won't miss out.This game is just as much fun as the first one, with whole new levels based on the now classic Crash Bandicoot gameplay, I would recommend this to anyone, Crash fan or not.All right for the guys that hate to read a lot about, real quick if you like 3d platform action adventure titles and maybe you like CB just one thing, GET IT!!!!!!!!!.

OK now to business, I have been in the world of video games since Atari 2600 and colecovision, so after more than 20 years of gaming I KNOW of what I am talking about, if I say its worth is worth it!! but the final word is always yours.

Game-play:+++++
This game has everything you need for hours of high quality of gaming experience, the art concept of the game goes over expectations of the hardware limitation of the PSO, The design of every single element in the game is very creative and unique, the developers invested time on the comedy of the game, which is a tradition on the original trilogy, as usual the controller its a wonder no need to struggle controlling the character and it vibrates as well, the powers, the moves and the style of the main character (CB), its superb, every part of the game becomes fun, not repeatable pattern of enemies or levels, the game itself has a lot of extras for a replay, definitely an outstanding game!!!!!.

Difficulty:!@#$% (Platinum RELICS)
Curse, frustration, but with practice you might become a CB3W master

Plot:+++
Well do not expect a twisted chrono trigger plot!!! as always in crash games the lack of plot its compensated with a beautiful work in the software itself, basically crash goes trough a set of portals using N Cortex (once again his back with an ally) Own technology through time and space, the main thing is of course stop them!!.

Graphics:*****
This is the strongest part of the game no doubt, the game is programmed to utilize MOST of the potential of the PSO GPU, they managed to create excellent crystal effects!!!, water!!!, light sources and shiny surfaces like chrome and ice!!!. one of the few games that deserve to be owned forever unopened!!, one the few great looking games for PSO.

Overall:*****
Perfect over all score!!. once again if you thing you can beat the game with one hand attached at your back and with folded eyes, try getting beyond 100% and all the platinum relics, the real gamer and fans of the series did it!! look for it on you tube, so the difficulty is very acceptable!!. this is by far the best Crash Bandicoot game by far, since I personally thing that going trough naughty dog to travelers tales lost a bit of formula of this great franchise, but oh well see yas.This game takes months to get 100% completion. The new feature in this is getting time rellicks(by doing level fast)and swimming. In Crash 1 you get Balders after you sometimes, in Crash 3 you get a dinosaur, I prefered being chased by a balder and when it squashed Crash it went into the screen but you don't get it in this.
BUY this if you want a platformer(after Crash 1 and 2).The Crash games for playstion are very fun games,even better than the mario games. Out of the Crash seires I think this one is the best. There are alot of thing you can do and the bosses rock. The story line is the best in this game. It takes plase after Crash2 were Dr. Cortex ship falles down on a temple, wich releses a demon mask. The mask that pertected crash in the first two games stats talking and tells crash that the evil mask is his Brother and his plan to build a time machine to get crystles to
destroy earth. The replay vaule is high and the gamplay is fun, you won't be able to put this game down for awile.this is one old school fun game to fight against your friends.  you can not create any thing.  hours of fun from royal rumble to regular matches and there is quite a bit of people to play as.Love this game. Takes me back to when games like this were made. Shipped fast. As always though the game was dirty. A little water and a paper towel fixed it right upThis is my all time favorite wrestling game ever made I really enjoy this game alot the modes you have are exhibition tag team special matches like 2 on 1 you have also a 40 player battle royal which to me is my all time favorite feature in this game what so ever winning the titles in this game is alot of fun and to me this game is alot better than the overrated smackdown here comes the pain and it is alot easier than that game as well I don't get why people say smackdown here comes the pain is so great when in reality it sucks because the ai in season mode is very cheap and I hate ai like that but in this game on easy mode the ai is way to easy but to me this game is just awesome and I still play this game alot to this day I never get tired of it.Greatest wrestling game ever, to this day. Not only does it feature the best wrestlers from the greatest time period in all of wrestlings history, but that greatness translates into the game. Fun, and very real controll like features. Can't say enough how great the game is.I remember when this game first came out. It was mind blowing as to just how awesome it was! It had basically anyone & everyone you'd ever want in a wrestling game (minus some legends). And if you had 4 controllers & 3 friends.....It was going down for hours! Well, this game is still pretty cool despite it's age. The. Graphics obviously don't look as awesome as they used to. But still, they could look worse....And the gameplay is still easy to pick up & enjoy! Infact, I wish the wrestling games of today could get the controls simple & fluid as on this N64 game. If they could remake this game w/ an expansive create a player/wrestler and simple controls. I'd easily buy that too! I highly recommend this to anyone that is a game collector. Or anyone who hasn't played games of this era, but are getting older games. There is a crap load of characters, cool match modes. And as I stated earlier get controllers & some buddy's.Great Game One Of The Best Of N64 Next To Paper Mario And Zelda OoT Ofcourse Anyway Buy It If You Have A N64 And Also Get wCw Nitro For PS1 Anyway BUY THIS AND NITRO AND THUNDER ALL FOR PS1[Note: This review has been edited since it was first posted.]
I loved this game when it first came out, and to this day it's one of my favorites. The wrestlers (most of them anyway) have a whole lot of moves, and they are not all the same for every wrestler. The inclusion of the "real" wrestlers' signature moves is very cool. One of the things I especially like about the game is the number of wrestlers on it. There are 62 of them --- that's a lot more than a lot of later wrestling games have. A few of them are locked at the start, but they're not really that hard to unlock --- at least not with the difficulty level on "easy." Several wrestlers who were later on the Legends games (Hogan, Macho Man, Sting, Bret Hart, Steiners, and others) are here. Some of the wrestlers are made-up, or at least I assume they are. The graphics are good. The wrestlers are blocky, but the "real" wrestlers' faces are very realistic. The play control is very good --- a lot better than the play control on World Tour. Some people may think the gameplay isn't "deep" enough, but it suits me just fine. The 40-man Battle Royal is really cool. There are several different arenas, which is kinda neat but (in my opinion) doesn't really do that much for the game. The sound effects and music are (in my opinion) not great but good enough. The wrestlers don't have individual entrance music, but oh well --- no biggie (again, my opinion). There is no commentary, but that's fine with me because I always turn off the commentary on games, anyway. One of my fave game features is the Costume Change mode. This mode lets you take wrestlers and put other wrestlers' outfits on them, and lets you edit the colors of the outfits. That's fun (I think so, anyway)! You can even change the wrestlers' names, but why would you ever really want to do that (unless maybe somebody [like Giant] has changed their name in real life)? There isn't much if anything about this game that I have any major complaints about. Sure, it's dated now, but I still find it as fun as I did back in 1998 (I think that's when it first came out). Just because something is old now, that doesn't mean it isn't still good!my grandkids (and their parents) love playing with the microphone along with the guitar we got.
this really is a lot of fun for everyone.  would totally recommend getting this if someone has an interest in music (singing)...This is and was the best wrestling game ever and the big bonus is it's WCW/NWO not WWE so all the wrestlers are awesome!This is one of my favorite games of all time.  In this game, there are 30 different levels that are mostly composed of the same 3D Crash levels that we're used to. Some levels, however, you get to use a biplane, motorcycle, or Jet Ski. Like the previous versions of Crash, you have to collect crystals and gems.  Now, you can also collect a relic for having the best time.  The music is fun, the controls are easy and it's just an overall great game for any age.now this time you will see a floting pieces of space station that cortex have bulided now this time one evil has returned her name is uka uka. in heart of aku aku he knows that if uka uka will get crystals then ever thing is doomed. by this time crash will do anything to stop cortex from collecting 25 crystals. by killing bosses you will get powers such as super charge body salm,double high jump,tondoro double spin,fruit bazoka and faster boots.Let me tell you all about this great game. I wouldn't want to give the story away, but let me tell you: The original two are no match for this great game! This game has 30 new colorful and nice levels, and 2 hidden ones. Almost all of them have nice and pretty graphics. There are more features too. For one thing, there is the Time Trial mode, in which you go through the levels in a certain amount of time, and you will get relics. You can play as Coco, riding her adorable tiger Pura, a jetski, a blimp, and a couple more. Crash himself can do some more things, like a Super Belly Flop, a Double Jump, a Triple Spin, use Speed Shoes and use a Fruit Bazooka for long range attacks. Also, he can ride an airplane, a motorcycle, a baby T-Rex and more. Also, even dying is humorous. Now for the game's one flaw: It is hard to be challenged. However, there are 3 types of relics. If you get all of the Sapphire Relics, you can get a really good ending. If you get all the Gold Relics, you get 105%. But the Platinum Relics require a master to collect. So, if you like all that's said, and even if you didn't, you will definitely love it.THQ's second American release is a huge leap in graphics from the original "World Tour" Dozens of wrestlers from the NW0, WCW, Raven's Flock, cruiserweights, heavyweights and some of which are made up for the game. The great thing about this game is it was back in WCW's hay-day when it had talented wrestlers, like Jericho, Benoit, Malenko and Raven, more talent means more moves, more moves means more fun. The only real modes other than battle royals, and handicapped matches are a series of championship tournaments to go through in a specific weight / talent class. There are incredible looking arenas even with an isle to brawl in and weapons that you can pull from the crowd and bring into the ring. The unfortunate part about this game is that it is dated, and it moves very slowly compared to Wrestlemania2000 and No Mercy.I can't even begin to explain how much I love this game as well as the second Crash Bandicoot game(I haven't played the first game yet) because they are so much fun with lots and lots of humorous levels and disasters.
Bandicoot is a marsupial on a muey dangerouso quest to collect 25 crystals and 25 relics in a quest to stop Dr. Neo Cortex and Aku Akus evil twin Uka Uka's quest to take over the world.
There are so many things that make this game so addictive,.
1. The music. It's so hilarious
2. The complex levels
3. The graphics are so awesome
4. The way Crash dies (I.E. falling off screen and his shoes fly up and fall back down, being sucked into a giant spinning vase and the lid closes on top of it)
By God to really even explain how great this game really is is difficult for me.
Like Sonic the Hedgehog was for Sega, and Mario was for Nintendo, Crash is for the Playstation.
In this day and age of excessively bloody and violent video games the Crash Bandicoot series is a great sigh of relief. I tend to enjoy sillier cartoonish games like this. I will never tire of this game.I got this game when I was like..6 years old, and I still play it(I'm 14 now.)
I think all the Crash Bandicoots were a new cahnge for psx, and I hope that they continue to stick with psx.I love it! Use it all the time. Really works perfectly with all games that you need a mic for.The original Crash game was very hard to beat.  It was still classic.  Then Crash 2 came out, with several hard levels and tough bosses.  Then out came this one, Crash Warped.  This is the cult classic of the series.  I have beaten the entire game, and never once been disappointed because of too much or too little challenge. I even managed to get a 104% file with the help of my brother and a twerp i know.  There are two secret levels.  They are Eggipus Rex and Hot Coco.  To get to Eggipus Rex,  you go into time trails in the Dino Might! level.  Then, board the yellow gem platform.  Keep running until you find the second pterydactyl (the triceratops will be already chasing you) and let it take you away.  To get into the Hot Coco level, simply crash into the road sign with an alien on it in the Road Crash level.  This game is a classic and every PS One or PS2 owner needs to have it.  Was this review helpful? OF COURSE IT WAS!this is a very good game,it is very challenging it has lots of levels and i managed to get 104% but the ps2 crash is more challenging but the bad thing of the ps2 crash is that the loading takes more than 3 minutes.I'm a big Crash fan and got this game the Christmas it came out. This game is incredible. Its easy enough for young kids (about 6 or 7) or even really experienced gamers (age depending.) It has very good graphics for a PS1 game, and you can use the dual shock or regular controls in this. Unlike former Crash games, you use more devices than before, and in some levels are actually Coco (Crash's intelligent little sister.) For example:
Baby Tiger: Ridden by Coco
Baby T-Rex: Ridden by Crash
Jet Ski Mobile: Ridden by Coco
Motorcycle: Ridden by Crash
Fast-moving spaceship: Ridden by Coco
Bi-Plane (with guns): Ridden by Crash and Coco (level depending)
Underwater Jet Ski Mobile: Ridden by Crash
Additionaly, you get to fight other bosses, and defeating each boss earns you a special item. There are 5 in all.
#1: Super Body Slam (lets you break through protected crates)
#2: Double Jump (allows you to jump over higher obstacles)
#3: Tornado Spin (spins around wildly, helps you glide over big
pits)
#4: Fruit Bazooka (a giant gun that can blast away your enemies!)
#5: Speed Shoes (gives you power to run, used to get certain relics)
The final thing: Crystals, Gems, Colored Gems, and Relics
Crystals: Right on the path for normal levels. They're thin and pink. Touch them and you've obtained them. Just beat the level to earn one after you pick them up. One per normal level.
Gems: To get these, break all the boxes in the level. Sometimes you'll have to have earned a color gem to get a gem. 1 to 2 per normal level.
Colored Gems: 5 in all, one every 5 levels (25 normal levels, 5 secret levels.) They serve as platforms to new areas in some levels. To get them, ride on a platform in some levels (for the platform to appear, you have to not have died up to that platform.) One in a level every 5 levels.
Relics: A new addition. After you get the relic in the level, go back and get the relic by going as fast as you can through the level and getting a certain time. There are three types:
Sapphire--The basic. You can get this with no speed shoes.
Gold------More advanced. Most level you need speed shoes.
Platinum--Expert level! EXTREMELY hard to aquire. Lots of practice needed!
That's pretty much all that you need to know. All I can say is besides the tips, have fun!This is the best action game for the Playstation that I have ever played.  During the game, you play and Crash and his sister Coco.  Their goal is to compete 25 levels to get all of the crystals needed to defeat Neo Cortex.  For every five levels there is also a boss that must be defeated.  Defeating each boss gives Crash a new 'power move' that will be needed in upcoming levels.  There are also five 'bonus' levels in the game.  The levels have Crash and Coco running, swimming, flying planes and spaceships, and riding tigers, jetskis, dinosaurs, and harleys.  For an additional challenge, you can try to get the one or two gems that are found on each level.  This usually requires smashing all of the boxes found on the level.  For an even greater challenge, you can try to get the relic found on each level by racing thru the level under a specified amount of time.
Warning!  This game is very addictive!  I can't stop playing until I get all of the crystals, gems, and relics.  Even though my goal is to complete the game, it's entertaining to watch all of the different ways Crash can die (see what happens when a frog catches you or when you get stuck by the porcupine fish).  The game offers much variety which keeps it very interesting, but is still easy to learn because of the limited number of controls.  If you ever get stuck and can't figure out how to get a crystal, gem, or relic, there are several walkthrus that can be found on the web.  I highly recommend buying this game.  I can't imagine anybody not liking it, unless they just like the hardcore shooting games like Quake (hey...in this game, Crash has a bazooka).  If you like this game and racing games, I also highly recommend Crash Team Racing (CTR).  I can't wait until the new Crash Bandicoot game comes out for the PS2.Graphics: 10/10 - The best visuals of the series! The colours shine fantastically and it all looks stunningly beautiful. The characters are clear and the game has backgrounds I could feast on.
Sound: 9/10 - Great uses of evil voicing and fantastic sound editing detail makes Crash 3's sound get a notch up.
Value: 10/10 - You'll be begging for more!
Overall: 10/10 - Fantastically detailed game that mixes genres and characters into a big story that erupts with fabulous enjoyment. In short: buy it.This is the best platform game I've played, and eliminates all down sides of its two prequels.  You're a bandicoot and jump on / spin baddies you encounter.  This game is kind of like old Mario games, but has awesome graphics.  They've added a type of box to the prequel and give one move, such as bazooka or tornado death spin, for each boss.  The game is easy to beat, but offers extras for breaking all the boxes or beating a level quickly.  It's extremely difficult to collect all of them.  I recommend this game for everyone, especially people with a lot of free time on their hands.been wanting to get this my sons love all the grand theft games thanks for having itTHANK YOU FOR A WONDERFUL EXPERIENCE THANK YOU AND SEE YA AGAIN! YOU ROCK! A+ ALL THE WAY. A+ AThis game has all the violence and language of the current popular Grand Theft Auto games packing into a convenient 2D package! :)This is where it all started. If your and old school gamer you've probably already played this. And if not it is a great game. If your a GTA fan but haven't played this it is a must to truly understand how great and innovated this series is and has become. If your not a fan of old school gaming though you may not like it.The first installment in the GTA franchise, this game is awsome, the story is simple and the gameplay is fun.I remember when my parents got me this game for Christmas 8 years ago! That was good times! Liberty City's based on New York City featuring Brocklyn based on Brooklyn, Kings based on Queens, Brix based on Bronx, Manhaddan based on Manhattan, but no island based on Staten Island!  Liberty City's bordered by the Garden State of New Guernsey based on the Garden State of New Jersey!  Very decent graphics by 1997 standards!  Realistic car controls!  Realistic gun fights!  No so realistic fist fights.  Good music!  There are 2 more cities to unlock such as the unidentified city in the Golden State of San Andreas based on San Francisco, California and Vice City in the Sunshine State of Florida based on Miami, Florda!  So get out there, grab a car, and have some fun!This is the original that started it all. If you can you past the fact that it is quite dated, you will absolutely love everything about this title. The gameplay is rock-solid, and the game moves really fast. Camera is great, as the whole game is viewed from a bird's eye perspective. The game is very open ended, and you will never get bored while playing this.I've never sat down to actually play Super Mario 64. I started to play it,and its different than other Mario games,and its fun.I purchased this game from Gamer Girls and it arrived on time and in the condition described. The game worked well on the first try and was clean. This is one of my favorite games of the Mario series so I was ecstatic to be able to play this again. Thank you so much!this is my childhood mario game

i get lots of laughs when watching someone plays the haunted house

what i don't like in the game is the rabbit they should give me a rifle or a shotgunArrived according to the time that was given. was packaged expertly. For an older game it played without flaws. there was no visible wear inside or out on the game.We plugged this microphone into the Wii and it just worked. We find USB easier to deal with on the Wii than using the microphone jack.

With all the noise of the games such as Rock Star, I can't really tell how good the audio quality is, but that also means that it is good enough for Wii.

It seems like it is well made, but we have only used it 10 - 20 times, so I don't know how it will hold up over time. The previous two microphones (different manufacturer) didn't last long before we had to start holding the cable in certain positions to make them work.

This microphone does what it is supposed to. Nothing lacking.Great game from my childhood, now my son gets to play it! Works well. I'm not adding more words, ok?Games sticker was very faded not like shown online. But the game works great and arrived fastWorks great!

Another cool thing, even if a song doesn't have "harmony" (parts for more than one singer) you can still do fake-harmony as all mics plugged in remain active.  However, the back-up singers will not be rated and will actually mess with the lead as the game doesn't differentiate what mic is being used for lead UNLESS there actually is a harmony part.  Meaning = if you're just singing to party, you can use all three mics on any song and they'll all just be treated as lead.  Pretty cool when you have a room full of mic hogs around the house like we do.  lol  It's just like when people would gang up all on one mic during a song, but now they actually feel like rock stars having their own mics.  For this reason, we just always keep all three mics plugged in and anyone can just pick one up and join in.  Just don't expect a good score ;-)Classic game!  Not only did I beat the game, but I gathered all 120 stars!  I still have my old Nintendo 64, and I occasionally like to play on it and reminisce.I had this when it 1st came out in 1996 THIS GAME SO FREAKING AWESOME N Till this day I'm playing this awesome game on my gaming laptop with my XBOX ONE CONTROLLER. Oh by the way I got this GAME FOR FREE ON MY LAPTOPCame in really good condition, played perfectly fine. I had tons of fun with this game, and I'd definitely recommend this if yore looking to have fun!We bought this item for our Wii. It does not work at all for it. :-( So that was a disapointment. We did decide to keep it though because it works wonderfully on our x-box 360.This game arrived quickly and as described. I am happy with this purchase. Thank youIt's not just nostalgic that makes this game good.  It still holds up with120 stars to find and defeat the evil bowser it is one heck of a journey.  One of the best platforms still to this day.One of my favorite N64 games. It was in great condition and worked perfectly. A must play for Mario fans new and old.A truly revolutionary and classic game. There's are many reasons people still play this title. If you have an N64, this is a game you probably should have.The soundtrack, the graphics, the voice acting, the level design and development, all bring the nostalgia and throw it right in your face. This is truly one of nintendo's best. If not the best n64 game, what is?Still the same game with nostagia now; boy this is historic. Mario goes 3D! and the game is still completely fun! would buy again if ever something happens to the one I have.My daughter still has a nintendo 64, She loved it. Now years later my Grandson plays it. He really loves Mario games. This game brings back fun memories!!!!!!! I really enjoy watching him play.... AND get very frustrated too!!!!This is the exact game I played when I was younger! :) very fun and good sellerLoved playing Dirt 2 and I thought the graphics were good.  Purchased Dirt 3 as an addition to the other...and the graphics are absolutely "Gorgeous"  If you liked Dirt or Dirt 2...you are going to love Dirt 3.  The game was easier to configure with my Logitech wireless rumblepad...and with my EVGA GTX 580, and all detail set to full on graphics at 1920 x 1080 I get over 100 fps.  The game looks good, plays well and is a blast!I played this game originally on a friend's PC, and it was okay, played this version on my N64 and had to have it... Its much better graphics wise and blood and guts wise than the original Quake.  Also, beats the crap out of DOOM64 by a long margin.  You have to have it to believe it.  I am hooked, now Im getting off my computer and playing some quake with my buds.  Did I mention you can play more than one player?  and you can play against each other too?  YOU CANThis was exactly what was needed and has worked flawlessly since being received. I recommend it, if you need one.This is the game that made 3D. Before, the goal was moving to the right in platformers. Super Mario 64 is the first 3D platformer, and after 19 years, still plays fantastically. Anyone with an N64 needs to own this game. It's the best selling N64 game for a reason.Super Mario 64 is all in all a brilliant game. Hands down best one for N64, and in all honesty the LAST GREAT MARIO game, bringing Mario into the 3D world.Oh the good old days playing Mario 64....still play it from time to time. Game arrived in great condition.I own this game as a teenager, believe me if you haven't play this game you missing a lot. Totally worth playing it even as adult. (actually to complete it, even a couple of times) . If i could give 10 star i would, miss old games.. maybe now with new games we get better graphics but everything else is actually worse.I had this game long ago, and then was forced to pawn it.  Now I have it again and I love it!  I recommend it for anyone interested in the old "Doom style" first person shooters.  Awesome game.Very fun, long game. Simple controls that must be finely articulated to master this game. Some simple levels for kids, some difficult levels for those better at games!I rated this product as I have because it exceeded my expectations. Also, I would recommend this product to others.This is easily the best game I've ever played.  I played it back when it was first released for the N64 and at the time there was nothing else like it on any of the other consoles. It led the way for 3d gaming which is of course the norm now.  To this day I still get nostalgic and pop the cartridge in on occasion just to run around in the various worlds. The graphics still look pretty good and the game play is still fun.  A simply incredible game.Where are all the green pipes!!!

Why is there no coin counter for running around the Castle! There are coins all over the place! I want to collect a 100 coin castle star! Did you even think before you sent this to production BRO! Is this even this games final form?!?

THE CAKE WAS A LIE!!!This is the game I played when I was a kid. It was fun to be able to play it once again!This is one of the best games ever made for the N64 console.
It will always be a reminder of my younger years and my kids love it.a little worn as described, but great conditions, great gameplay and very fun for reviving your childhood game! and i am 22 years old.i got this to hook up me will to my 72inc h/d tv it set it up to 1080i not 1080p but besides that it's a grate cable!!!i don't think i really need to tell you why this game is amazing if you have played it you already knowthe original party game. the nostalgia that this game brings back makes it a must buy!

one of the best games of all timesProbably the most epic of the first generation of 3D platformers, and certainly one of the most well-known. With 120 stars to collect, you can spend quite a bit of time working up the perfect game. Just don't go for that "unlocking Luigi" nonsense. It was all an urban legend.MY NEPHEW IS HAVING A BLAST PLAYING MARIO AGAIN. THANK YOU HE PLAYS IT ALL THE TIME AFTER SCHOOL, ITS HARD FOR ME TO TAKE HIM AWAY FROM THE GAMEThis is a top classic Mario game. I would highly recommend getting it if you love the Mario series! Very good game!We had this game before and as the years went by, it became defective. After searching and searching it finally became available and we had to get it.This is everything I thought It would be. It was the first game I got when I got my n64 and it was greatThe movers packed my Wii cables in a separate box so I couldn't find them. I ordered this as it would be quicker and I wasn't disappointed. It is inexpensive and it works. I did have my Wii setup manual so it was no problem to get up and running right away. Sometimes you get what you pay for, and sometimes it is better.I think this was more for me than my son because it brought back memories. Thumbs up for you guys having it!!I Love this game it's the best Mario game on Nintendo 64. It is fun and everyone would love playing this game.Good game for it's time period, kinda miss the old 64 graphics. The cartridge came before it's due date, and it works wonderfully. Thanks.One of my all time favorite games for the Nintendo 64! I missed playing this and finally ordered the game just to feel the nostalgia, ha. The game works perfectly, and I feel like a little kid again fighting bowser :DI really like the product, and it got here really fast too, thanks for everything.
I would definitely recomend itFor those of you who haven't played Super Mario 64, I would like to say on behave of all of us that have, "your truly missing out!" Super Mario 64 was the very first video game I ever played on my Nintendo 64, so my review could be a little biased, but I just recently replayed the game from start to finish and it still has not lost its touch. It's a game for people that love adventures, puzzles, shooting, and the occasional flying. It never seizes to get old and the graphics are as good as they can get for the Nintendo 64.

The object of the game is simple, Bowser has kidnapped Princess Peach, and you, Mario (the greatest Plummer in the world), must save her. Bowser is hiding somewhere in the castle and you must find him by collecting all of the hidden stars scattered throughout various paintings that give Mario his power. To find Bowser, you must climb to the top of the tower. Each floor requires a certain number of stars that have to be collected before you can move on. Every painting that has stars in them are magical paintings that Mario can jump through to transport himself to a different world were he can explore for stars.

Overall, I rank the game a 9/10 for its creativity and several different ways it keeps players focused and entertained. The makers of Mario did a fantastic job integrating so many different aspects of gaming, which in turn made it so great. I hope that whoever is reading this can come to their senses and BUY THIS GAME!The kids play this game at least once a week since they've had it so yes its worth the moneyThis work, no problem at all and appreciated it. Lots of fun, peoples love playing the game all together. Woohoo!Just as described, my son was very happy with this product when he opened the package.  Well worth the money.Enjoying playing this game with no complaints. Met my expectations and would do business again with this seller again.15 years later, still a great game.
This is a classic in every sense of the word.
It not only redefined the Mario Franchise. it redefined 3D gaming.

It is a must have it you still own a N64.love it the kids love it and its not xbox 360 lol moms and dads and some grand parents would love it too.It's strange to me that in all the years since "Super Mario 64" was released in 1996, I never wrote  a review for this groundbreaking, utterly fantastic game that has meant so much to me over the years.

To give just a little history, when the N64 came out, I had some family who were in the middle of a divorce after an ugly affair in 1994 with a pastor of a church we all went too.  My friend, (who we will call Courty) who was born in 1987 and who I consider as close as a brother, was just a young kid and going through the hell of his family disintegrating.  His father was dysfunctional and drank a lot and his mother was an adulterer.  His mother and my mother grew up together and known each other since grade school.  His brother and my brother were best friends, being the same age.  And although there was a seven year difference between himself and I, we were super close (and still are), because of how close our families were (and still are).  I remember turning 17 in January of 1997, and my family had a big birthday party and I got my very own N64 and a copy of this game.

Those were brutally hard times for all involved with so much pain.  The parents divorced and the dad got his own house.  In the midst of that, the boy's dad bought him an N64, along with "Super Mario 64" and "Star Wars, Shadows of the Empire".  For me, this game is forever tied up into that emotionally turbelent period in our lives, because both my friend and myself would play this for hours and hours just to escape the hollowness and the pain we both felt at what was going on around us.  That, my friends, is the power of Super Mario.

Anyway, I grew up in the NES and SNES era.  Context is so important, because without the context of growing up in those years, the impact of "Super Mario 64" is completely lost to younger people.  To the generation that has "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim", "Gears of War", the "Grand Theft Auto" series, the "Mass Effect" trilogy, "Assasin's Creed", "Metroid Prime" trilogy,  and the "Call of Duty" series, playing through "Super Mario 64" now may feel like you're going backwards, and you'd be right.

The best analogy for those who didn't grow up during that time would be like watching a black and white television from the 1950s or 1960s, and then within a mere ten years, you are now watching a Plasma TV capable of 3D technology.  Or the 1939 movie "The Wizard of Oz", when Dorothy opens the door and everything goes from black and white to glorious colour.  "Super Mario 64" was THAT much of a gamechanger.

I've been with Super Mario since day one all the way back in 1985.  There is not a single "Super Mario" game that I have missed out playing at launch, with only two exceptions, "Super Mario Land" for the Gameboy and "Super Mario Sunshine" for the Gamecube.  Each Mario game was a revelation and just utterly fun back in that era, even though they were short.  My first exposure to "Super Mario 64" was sometime in the fall of 1996.  I just remember being in utter amazement - remember, though there may have been some 3D forays before "Super Mario 64", nothing, and I mean NOTHING, looked this amazing or played this awesome.  I would play the game for hours and hours, and felt like I was in a fully interactive novel or world.  I can remember thinking "Where do game makers go from here?  This is utter perfection!"  I niavely thought the graphics would never be equaled, they were that good.  I remember telling Courty's brother (my own brother's best friend) back in the late 1980s "Wow, just imagine if they go past 16 bit and go to like 80 bit or 100 bit!  Just think how amazing that would be!"  And with the 64 Bit, I felt that what I had been talking about had come to past.

For those who didn't grow up back then, it can be easily to forget just revolutionary "Super Mario 64" truly was.  Just eleven years prior to the 1996 induction of "Super Mario 64" to popular consciousness, we were playing such early titles as the original "Super Mario Bros." (the best launch game for the NES hands down), "Excitebike", the absolutely dreadful "Ten  Yard Fight", etc.  From 1985 to 1994 we saw some of the greatest games ever made in glorius 8-Bit, but especially the early NES titles are so far removed from current gaming that there will be those out there who find them hard to play.  Look at some of the old NES ads on Youtube or game magazines from the 1980s and 1990s.

But technology moves on, and the SNES and Sega Genesis were fighting for dominance in the early 1990s.  Once we graduated to the SNES and the Genesis, gamers moved beyond mere platforming to more expansive types of games such as the "Final Fantasy" titles, "Act Raiser", "Sim City", "Super Metroid", "Chrono Trigger", and "The Legend of Zelda: A Link tot he Past".  Either that or we were all playing Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter II clones.  By 1995 we saw Nintendo push the SNES to its limits technologically with such titles as "Star Fox" and the "Donkey Kong Country" trilogy, as well as "Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island".

The plot is simple.  Bowser kidnapped Princess PEACH Toadstool (the first time she was ever referred to as "Peach" in North America) after the Princess invited you over for some cake.  It is up to you as Mario to go forth and rescue Power Stars that are hidden throughout the castle.  Enough about the plot.  Let's get to the gameplay.

And the gameplay, oh the gameplay!  You are in a fully interactive 3D environment.  After turning the N64 on and getting a file set up (after spending entirely too much time messing with Mario's face at the starting screen - don't worry, we all did that!), Mario jumps out of a pipe, and you are in a field with a castle ahead of you.  You can jump, swim, scoot, crawl, kick, punch, wall-jump.  Yo  can do a backflip even and a triple jump and a long jump.  The game is so vibrant, colorful, and, at least back in the late 1990s, simply a beauty to behold.

You go to the castle, and after you are introduced to your friendly camera man (who everyone now very fashionably hates on), the Lakitu (in a rare state of not throwing Spinies at you), you are free to go where ever you wish, provided you have enough stars.  The castle is the overall hub, and by jumping into different portraits on walls, pools, down tunnels, and even looking into the sunlight in the castle will open you to one of the game's fifteen overall levels or a secret level.  Nintendo wisely made certain parts of the castle inaccessible until you have gained enough power stars, but these goals are quite easy to meet.

There is simply so much to do and so much to see, whether you are fighting King Bob-Omb and the Bob-Omb Battle Field, raising with Koopa the Quick, and navigating the snowy terrains of "Cool, Cool Mountain" and "Snow Man's Land".

The levels are just so memorable.  Mario controls the water levels present in "Wet Dry World".  "Dire Dire Docks" has an enormous sub and a cool stingray.  "Tall, Tall Mountain" pits you against a theiving monkey.  "Shifting Sand Land" features a great battle against a pair of hands called Eye Rok, a cranky vulture who will steal your cap, and a great pyramid.  "Letha Lava Land", a level literally likened to hell, has a volcano and a sea of lava that Mario must contend with.  The last two levels are particularly fiendish: "Tick Tock Clock" is an enormous clock level that speeds up or slows down depending on what time the clock reads when you enter the level, and "Rainbow Ride" (always my personal favorite) is probably the most difficult, with an expansive sky level where Mario gets to ride magic carps riding on enormous rainbows.

Then there's "Whomp's Fortress" (which was remade into a retro stage for "Super Mario Galaxy 2"), always fun, "Jolly Roger Bay" (a nautically themed, very creepy level with a scary eel and an enormous pirate ship; it was always my least favorite), a haunted mansion "Big Boo's Haunt", and a level of either epic or bite size preportions, "Tiny-Huge Isaldn".  Each level brings new and fun ways to interact with the environment hithertoo unseen previously in other levels.

There are all three secret cap levels that are a lot of sun as well, including flying.  "Super Mario Bros. 3" may be the first time Mario flew, but it was "Super Mario 64" that Mario really took to flight like never before.  Also the Princess's Secret Slide is a lot of sun fun, and houses the most obscure star of them all (you must beat the slide under 21 seconds, and the most surefire way to do that is actually jump off the slide and land down much farhter)

One thing that I really love about "Super Mario 64", and which the other 3D Marios have not included, is how open ended the title is.  You can really go anywhere and are not limited to individual stars.  As great as the Galaxy games are (and believe me, they're fantastic, especially the second), they don't have the open ended exploration of SM64 and are more linear and streamlined.

The closest akin to the exploration factor is "Super Mario Sunshine" (a game I have tried and simply cannot get into).  However, whereas you are limited to whatever star you choose in "Super Mario Sunshine" (and this fact alone makes for some tedious gameplay in that title), in "Super Mario 64" has all six stars available (with only one or two exceptions) from the get go, giving you much more freedom to do whatever you want.  Streamlining is important, and when Nintendo removed the abilitiy to get any star you want at the onset of the level, they ended up with the somewhat confusing and tedious levels of "SMS".  It's a very fine line between streamlined and open ended, but SM64 has that balance spot on.

Going back now, yes, even though back then I didn't think it was possible back in 1996 when I first played this, we moved far beyond this game graphically.  The polygons look dated, and the camera has gotten a notorious repution, with IGN even calling the camera system "broken" by today's standards.  And yes, subsequent titles may have perfected the 3D gameplay, but really, it was Mario that led the charge, and even today the game holds up well.  Now I play "Super Mario 64" with my own kids who love it too.

This game has meant so much to me and got me and my brother (he may as well be) through some very rough times.  Add And for that I will always be thankful.  One of the best games out there, without a doubt!Stupid Sony... they forced 3D games out before anybody was ready. Nintendo was forced to cancel many Super Nintendo games (Doom FX, Star Fox 2, Mario FX) and release the Nintendo 64. Many popular 2D games failed in full 3D. Castlevania, Mega Man... they failed and have not been revived. Did Mario succeed? YES! This game is a legend. I heard about it in 2009 (not 1996) in a Nintendo Power magazine simply titled "Mario". I did not own a Nintendo 64 (this was 2009). The only system I had was an original Wii that we used for Mario Kart. I was somehow able to persaude my parents to buy me a Wii Point Card with 2000 points on it (enough for Mario 64 and Super Mario Bros 3). I downloaded it and was greeted with a happy Mario face that said "HELLO!". Soon I was distorting him to where he had no moustache and had big ears. Then I started the game and got a message from Peach. In her girly princess voice she read the letter, which told Mario she had baked a cake for him. The plumber could not resist and jumped out of a warp pipe onto the castle grounds. I had never played a 3D Mario Game. I stuck to Animal Crossing, Mario Kart, My Sims, and Wii Sports (I was 8 years old). After a little bit of exploring I entered the castle. Instead of a cake Mario got a scary message from Bowser (Who ate cake, I guess). Soon I was hiking up a hill to meet a giant king bomb complete with a moustache and crown. He told me (using fancy king words) that in order to get the bomb I had to defeat him. I defeated him and moved on to the next level, a giant fortress ran by slabs of concrete with faces. Then I started level 3, a snow level. What a level that was! Finding baby penguins, building snowmen, sliding down a slide. Then my parents walked in. My mom said "YUCK! What are those dots supposed to be?". Those dots were snow flakes. My dad said "Are those graphics... 64 bit?" I had not even realized the graphics were bad because I was lost in the creative levels. Each level had an original design with interesting puzzles and obstacles put in the way of the star. Each boss was different and interesting. The graphics are outdate, so what? This, along with Mario 3, really changed my view of video games. Now (in 2012) I have almost no respect for high-powered consoles like the Xbox 360. Kids should play these old games. How hard is it to get kids a $20 card so that they can enjoy a unique classic like this? The challenge is not too much. If you get stuck on one level you can try another. This is a beautiful game that put the Nintendo 64 to its limits.I have been playing video games for years. My first console was the original Nintendo and then the Super Nintendo followed by the Nintendo 64. Super Mario 64 came out when I was about 10 years old and it was an instant hit. Super Mario 64 was the greatest Super Mario game of them all. My nephew has a Nintendo 64 and he wants some new games for his birthday. I thought what's better than Super Mario 64. I bought this for his birthday and he will love it. I would recommend Super Mario 64 to anyone who wants to play a fun and family oriented Mario game.When I first played Super Mario 64 as a kid, I was amazed. I never even had the game though. Heck, I never had a Nintendo 64. This game like many other Nintendo 64 titles encouraged me to go out and buy myself a Nintendo 64 16 years after its release. I used to play this game with friends and cousins. Playing it now brings back such great memories. This game is what a game is all about. An unforgettable story, an interesting environment, and overall FUN. This game doesn't get old. In my opinion, it beats out most modern games today. Super Mario 64 formed the basis for all 3-Dimensional video games. If you were considering getting this game, don't consider any longer. GET IT.Super Mario 64 one of the greatest games for N64.

Story/Plot: the Story begins with a letter from Princess Peach inviting Mario to come to her castle for a cake she has baked for him. However, when he arrives, Mario discovers that Bowser has invaded the castle and imprisoned the princess and her servants within it using the power of the castle's 120 Power Stars. Many of the castle's paintings are portals to other worlds, in which Bowser's minions keep watch over the stars. Mario explores the castle for these portals to enter the worlds and recover the stars. He gains access to more rooms as he recovers more Power Stars, and eventually traverses three different obstacle courses, each leading to its own battle with Bowser. Defeating Bowser the first two times earns Mario a key for opening another level of the castle. After Mario defeats Bowser in the final battle, Peach is released from the stained-glass window above the castle's entrance. Peach rewards Mario by kissing him on the nose and baking the cake that she had promised him.

Gameplay: Each course is an enclosed world in which the player is free to wander in all directions and discover the environment without time limits. The worlds are filled with enemies that attack Mario as well as friendly creatures that provide assistance, offer information, or ask a favor (such as pink "peace-loving" Bob-omb Buddies). The player gathers stars in each course; some stars only appear after completing certain tasks, often hinted at by the name of the course. These challenges include defeating a boss, solving puzzles, racing an opponent, and gathering coins. As more stars are collected, more areas of the castle hub world become accessible. The player unlocks doors in the castle with keys obtained by defeating Bowser in special courses. There are many hidden mini-courses and other secrets to the game, most containing extra stars needed to complete the game entirely. Some courses contain cannons that Mario can access by speaking to a pink Bob-omb Buddy. After entering a cannon, Mario can be shot out to reach distant places. When the player has the Wing Cap equipped, cannons can be used to reach high altitudes or fly across most levels quickly.

The gameplay and control is fricken awesome u can control mario in more ways then 1.

Power ups: Some courses have special cap power-ups which augment Mario's abilities. The Wing Cap allows Mario to fly; the Metal Cap makes him immune to most damage, allows him to withstand wind, walk underwater, and be unaffected by noxious gases; and the Vanish Cap renders him partially immaterial and allows him to walk through some obstacles such as wire mesh, as well as granting invulnerability to some forms of damage.

Abilities: Mario can wall jump, long jump, and many more.

Music: the Music is all original nothing has been copied but the game music is awesome for each stage. In short Super Mario 64 is a great game and it deserves respect.
This game is a must get in your video game collection. This game also started the trend where super games have 64 in their name for example Donkey Kong 64 Super Mario Kart 64 Pilotwings 64 and Super Man 64.
Story 5/5 Gameplay 5/5 Music 5/5 Powerups 5/5 Overall 10/10 = A+This great game is commonly overshadowed by the INFERIOR N64 Zelda games. If you have the N64 without this game, what are you waiting for? Buy this game! Super Mario 64 has GREAT gameplay, sound effects, music, graphics, and an excellent intro to top it all off!I remember the first time I laid eyes on this game. I had been hearing about how awesome the Nintendo 64 was going to be from schoolmates as we eagerly anticipated the USA release of this system. I remember hearing how in demand it was and the ensuing shortage for the upcoming Christmas before I even saw it. Then one day I was Christmas shopping with my dad and happened to come across a demo set-up in the mall, and I finally got to see what the massive hype was about.

The game was bright and colorful, and Mario was fully 3D. A large crowd had gathered around to catch a glimpse of the latest in video game technology, and I only lingered for a moment, yet my first impression is still fresh in my memory. Mario 64 looked like nothing I had ever seen before, and also looked leaps and bounds better than anything I had ever seen on Playstation, Sega Saturn or any other system. I was very impressed.

Several months later, I finally saved up enough money to purchase the system bundled with Mario 64. I loved the game dearly back then, and to this day I still love this game. It still looks, feels and plays unlike any other game that came out during that era. While Zelda Ocarina of Time is similar graphics-wise, that game is so great in it's own right that both games deserve to be recognized separately.

Mario 64 is a perfect launch game for the Nintendo 64 home console system. Looking at the controller for the N64, one might have been understandably skeptical due to the layout. However, Mario 64 is actually very easy to control and is a good introduction to getting gamer's accustomed to the new feel of the controller and it's new button layout.

When I say the controls for this game are very simple, I must also mention that Mario is capable of many actions. Mario can walk, run, crawl, jump, triple jump, backflip, side somersault, wall kick, swim, climb, punch, kick, slide, fly, shoot from a cannon, butt-splash, hang, hand-over-hand, crouch, surf on koopa shells, and even look around. While this scope of actions seems like a lot and likely difficult to master, the reality is that yes, it is alot but is not difficult at all to master. A few of the skills, such as wall kicking or flying take some practice to master, but the majority of Mario's actions are very easy to master, which results in very fluid gameplay and the sensation of actually being Mario.

The camera angles are manageable considering you have control over them. You might find yourself slightly frustrated with it in certain enclosed areas (such as Boo's Haunted House) but for the most part, the camera angles are very functional. The gameplay is extremely fun with a very gradual learning curve. While you only need 60 stars to complete the game, players looking to one-up the challenge can elect to try and collect all 120 stars, which requires true mastery of the game.

The music is outstanding. Koji Kondo, also famous for the Ocarina of Time music, did all the music for Mario 64 and succeeded in composing very memorable and enjoyable tunes. My personal favorite is and will always be the Jolly Rodger Bay / Dire Dire Docks music.

The level design is unique with some truly large levels offering tons of exploration. Mario will find himself in sunken ships, caves with toxic gas, inside a volcano, a pyramid, in a desert, a fortress in the sky, sliding down slippery snowy slopes, and even inside a giant strange clock. This game is filled with fun challenges and hours of terrific gameplay. I don't believe I've ever met anyone that didn't find this game fun to play.

No, Luigi is not in the game. There was a major hoax citing ridiculous methods that would unlock Luigi, but all proved untrue. Kind of strange Luigi wasn't in the game, but not that big of a deal.

Mario 64 is well loved and remembered, but it is kind of strange that the Nintendo 64's launch game is almost incomparable to the entire library of games that followed. Super Mario World on Super Nintendo was a gem, but there were other great games in the SNES library. However, with the Nintendo 64, Super Mario 64 along with Zelda Ocarina of Time stand head and shoulders above pretty much every game in the Nintendo 64 library, which is disappointing considering that we see the Nintendo 64 was capable of supporting top-notch games. The Nintendo 64 library just didn't manage to produce games that lived up to the original launch game.

In the end, Mario 64 will always be remembered as the revolutionary classic that literally defined the Nintendo 64-bit era.I didn't use to be into Mario or Kirby but now I like them both as much as I like the Legend of Zelda series I still have many more games to purchase based on those 2 characters. But I think SuperMario 64 is a great story game a killer for the old games meant for the gameboy. So enjoy!I grew up playing Super Mario 64. If you are considering buying this game, don't hestitate or think twice. This game is really fun. It can keep you entertained for hours. The graphics are simply stunning even by today's standards, considering the age of this game. It is a CLASSIC, MUST HAVE for any N64 players, Mario fans or video game fanatics.This game is really good. It was the launch title for the Nintendo 64. It's a full 3D world. The objective of the game is to collect the Power Stars in Princess Peach's Castle to get to the top of the castle to fight Bowser and save the princess. 70 stars out of the 120 are required to face Bowser. This game is really big too; you can fly, turn invisible and go through certain types of walls, and turn into metal! The game is really good and I would recommend this to anyone who has a N64. If you don't have a N64, you can get it from the Virtual Console service on Wii for about 10 bucks.My six year old grandson has had many hours of enjoyment especiall after receiving this cartridge and his console which shipped in another order. Everything was smooth and merchandise arrived in excellent condition and in time prescribed.When i got my n64 years ago, i bought mario kart 64 and i liked it :)
But i never bought mario 64, i played it and completed it though. I loved mario 64, the gameplay is awesome, the graphics are cool (for that times). The only thing i regret is that i never bought it to have it as a memento of my n64 gaming times.

I loved it so much that i tried to find it in a market, i found a lot of n64 games but not mario 64. I just wanted to play it one last time to remember the good old days of n64 gaming. So i had to download a n64 emulator and play it, but its not the same to play with a keyboard than to play with the joystick. Anyway i could play the entire game and that made me happy.

For all those people who played the good old days of n64 should have this game because is a memory of the n64 and the good old times of gaming.This is so classic and we love it! Don't forget to buy a rumble pack so you can feel when you crash or go over the railroad tracks!This product is very good and works fine. Buy it if you want it. it lets your we display in HD format of 480p which looks alittle better than normal Av cable it comes with. To the untrained eye you might not even notice the diffrence.In these decades of the digital world with superior hardware and high definition graphics, I don't believe gamers will ever encounter the same life changing experience as those who have first hand seen Mario evolve into a 3D masterpiece.  The Nintendo 64 is the best console of its time HANDS DOWN!! and Super Mario 64 is a MASTERPIECE.I don't know how many times I've played this game from start to finish.
Like a lot of people my decision to buy a N64 was based on the Mario 64 commercials.
The WOW factor was in full effect.
When I got home and started playing it literally felt like the first time I experienced Atari or the Sega Genesis.
Blown away would be an understatement.

The game itself?
Perfection even with a few minor things.

The good.
M64 ushered in a whole new age of platforming.
Brought us 3D platfroming that was just about perfect in every way.
The graphics for it's time were second to none.
The control was spot on.
The story line was simple but cute like all Mario games.
Hidden secrets like being able to wall jump up to the roof.
I could go on and on.......

The bad?
My only gripe is the camera.
The camera can get quite wonky in places and funny...even to this day bad cameral angles still plague 3D games.
Nintendo and other companies have for the most part gotten the camera down with the free moving camera feature. Too bad some companies are still completely clueless.

To summarize.
Perfection.
Groundbreaking.
A legend that spawned a thousand imitators, some good, most...not so good.
Can't beat the original.
Highest recommendations.I have a 5 and 6 year old whom which are addicted to this game. The game is genius in the way it makes the use of logic mandatory but not so difficult to cause frustration. Save money buy buying a N64 system and this game in comparison to a PS3 or a XBOX.Right off the bat, before it came out, you'd probably wonder how would you ever imagine Mario in 3D. Well, here's your answer: Mario 64.

There's 15 huge courses with 7 missions in each (Counting 100 coin stars), with stars for rewards. Those stars help you unlock more levels.

At the time, no one ever saw anything like this before. Although the graphics look fairly primitive now, they were still eye candy for most Mario fans, especially back then.

Super Mario 64 plays how a 3D game should be played like: With a free camera, flawless control, and extremely playable environments.

Getting all 120 stars is the real challenge. (SPOILER ALERT) If you do manage to get them all, you get to visit Yoshi on the castle roof and he will give you 100 lives along with an improved triple jump move.

Overall, you know what I want you to do, so do it. Buy the gameWhy is this on the list, because for the time it was the cream of the crop. And its also one of the funnest Mario games you'll ever play. The worlds look great, lots of free roaming and neverending gameplay is why this game makes the list. Still love it."Super Mario 64 is a great game and is what I would call the best platforming game of all time.

PROS
+ Memorable music and imaginative courses.
+ Game play is always straightforward and never confusing.
+ 120 stars to collect for long playing time.
+ Graphics were great back when it was made, and is not painful to look at now.

CONS
- While this game does have replay value, you aren't compelled to play again after you beat it. Give it a while and you will definitely want to play again.

This game was not too hard for me, and I beat it when I was in the single-digits as a child. That given, it shouldn't be too hard for any age. Buy this game now if you haven't ever played it, since it is one of those video games you have to beat.Super Mario 64 is a game I've wanted to play for ages. I finally decided to purchase it and I was not disappointed. In my opinion Super Mario 64 is the best in the Mario series and one of the best games ever. This game was a breakthrough in 3Dplatformers and it's easy to see why. The 3D is great for its time and the style is incredible.

The game is addictive as well. I would play for hours and hours and wouldn't want to stop, and Super Mario 64 does not get tiresome after you beat it for the first time.

The plot is simple, Bowser kidnaps Princess Peach and Mario must save her. But the plot's not important in a video game. The game play is what matters.

The game is fast paced and you always have new areas to unlock. Despite not having any other areas to go to outside of Princess Peach's castle there are tons of areas inside. Getting to new areas is simple. You need a certain amount of stars to unlock doors, and unlock enough doors to unlock boss doors. Overall, there are 120 stars in the entire game and I would recommend a guide because of how challenging it is.

When battling Bowser in this game, I was disappointed. He's so easy. When I beat him the first time I was surprised how easy he was. It was more difficult getting to Bowser than it was battling him. But all three incredible boss stages that were before the battles are so much fun it makes up for it.

There are also hidden items, characters and power ups for Mario to find.

Now there are a few problems like any other game that I think are quite frustrating. Mario's controls sometimes are a little tough. His wall jumps have to be so precise and if you mess up you have to do it again and again, and the camera sometimes can be tough to use in certain areas. But, despite these problems it's still a great game.

This game is a must own for Mario fans. While yet you must already know this since I'm writing this review thirteen years later. : )

Super Mario 64 will always be known as one of the best 3Dplatformers in video game history.I played this game when it first came out at a friends house but i never bought it. I was not that in to the 64 back then. But now i think it is very fun and entertaning. The graphics r good for the 64, including that it was the first game ever for it. That is why almost everyone who has a 64 has this game. If u take the snes newest games graphics compared to this game, which is only a couple years apart, these graphics seem life like. It has a great adventure but its weird that Luigi is not in this game. It adds much more new items,charecters,and levels. I like that it is first person view unstead of the side view like on the past marios. Ever since this game most marios have been first person view. This is why i want sm64 ds, it is like the 64s but different graphics and differnent layouts. I will get the ds one in the future but thats a different story. Like i said, my top favorite game today.Okay so when I decided I wanted to buy a "new" nintendo 64, my brain automatically said "now where can I find super mario". Hours upon hours were spent on this game when I was a tweenager and I had so much fun with it. So I went out as soon as I could and bought it again.

I was kind of worried, because I had gotten some games with my system that I used to this were fun also but they ended up being a little too easy since I'm older now, but when I got this and played it it was exactly the same. Some easy levels, and some that take forever to get through, but in a good way.

I have had it for a month now and haven't gotten bored with it yet. So I recommend this game to people of all ages. I even let my 3 year old brother try it out and he had a blast, even though he had no clue how to really navigate 100%.

BUY IT.A fun game all the way!! You just can't get enough of this fantastic wonderful game!!!!!!this is an amazing game. one that you can enjoy playing from the start to the finish.Every now and then a start this game up from scratch and go seeking the 120 stars and the battles with Bowser.  What makes this game so fun is that even though you master it there are several stars that are just so hard to get again (I don't know how many times I need to race the penguin down the chute before I can get one of the tougher stars).

I really love the music and the toughness of Mario as he beats the baddies into submission with kicks, punches and smashes.  Though the graphics may pale by today's standards they seemed so far ahead of their time when the game was introduced (it was one of the first 3-D graphic games around).

I never tire of it.This game is more fun than I expected.  I am really pleased with the way Mario can move!When I first saw Super Mario 64 in 1996 I had to pick my jaw up off the ground.  While 10 years have passed, I still consider this game of the finest pieces of entertainment I have ever seen.  The kinds of things that the development team pulled off in the mid 90s set the stage for all future video game development and it was, is and always will be groundbreaking.

An achievement that should not be ignored and is still as much fun today as it was a decade (DECADE?!!?) ago.

***** HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATIONI'm not quite finished with the game's DiRT Tour mode, but I believe I've experienced the bulk of what the game has to offer.  And I'm happy to say that the game is indeed awesome.  Great cars, great tracks and racing modes, excellent gameplay and graphics.  The highlight has been racing in the snow on various tracks in Aspen.  There are also some really cool obstacle courses on pavement, which are new to the series.

At first, I felt that the game was plagued with the same difficulty spike DiRT 2 had, where you can win any race without trying on casual difficulty, then lose big time on medium.  Then I found the custom difficulty settings where you can choose from 5 levels of challenge, then pick and choose from all the other assists and handling options.  Basically, you can let the game play itself by just holding the throttle and steering, or take gradual steps to reach what you feel works best for you.  Love this feature!  Sadly, there is no option to increase the 360 controller's dead zone or adjust the sensitivity.  I'm doing ok as is, but some tweaking would be ideal.

Much like the previous two games, the handling is a bit flighty.  But that's speeding on loose ground for you.  Still, I feel things have tightened up somewhat since DiRT 2.  Still no cigar, but it's a step forward.  The game runs as smooth as silk on my 560ti wih all the settings maxed.  No issues whatsoever.  If you enjoy racing games, this is not one you should ignore.  It's the best DiRT so far.This game was one of my favorite games on the N64...one of 10 or 12...anyway, this game is stunning graphicly (for it's time) and the gameplay is a blast and challenging

you can find this game on any emulator site...check it outThis game is great!!!!!!! I played a friends, and then they gave it to me.. Ive beat it!! I still have to try to get all the stars, but I will!! The game is REAL fun and interactive with many great lands and levels to get the stars, and fun bosses!! The game is just REALLY great, I really love it!! IT ROCKS!!!!This is it! The ground breaking game that shot the Nintendo 64 sells thorough the roof and off to space! Super Mario 64 is a game that cant be found anywhere else! It is truly amazing in every aspect from stunning graphics to superbly versatile gameplay. I just couldn't believe that this game could be this good even though it is so old!(yes, it is OLD now!) This game was so dang much fun that they even made it for Nintendo DS! If you are looking for one amazing game and own the best system ever made(Nintendo 64-NOT Xbox, Playstsion 2, or Xbox 360) then look for Super Mario 64. You will not be dissapointed. Guaranteed!Super Mario 64 was and still is one of the best and most revolutionary video game ever made.  The game was a launch title for the Nintendo 64 and boy did the game make its mark on the console.  Sure we have games like Banjoe Kazooi, Ocarina of Time but this game was the first to come out and is still an instant class and started many many famous game rippoffs(Like many people say Banjoe Kazooi was a ripoff but I DIDN'T SAY THAT so don't flame me!)but that's beyond the point, this game is still one of the most beloved video game ever.  When Super Mario 64 launched with the N64 it was indeed a very revolutionary game, it was the first game to present 3d platforming, state of the art graphics and some of funnest/best gameplay you'll see in platforming/action games.  The game is HUGE!  In Mario 64 you WILL be going through many, many stages to collect stars so you can unlock more areas for more stars and ultimatley put the evil bowser to an end and once again save Princes Peach.  I was one of many people who first played this game back when it launched with the Nintendo 64 and when you compare it to todays games the game(to many, but not me)looks terrible but you gotta understand, the time this game was released(96')it was INFACT the best looking video game ever.....period...and even today when I play this classic, it still looks amazing!  Call me crazy but I seriously still think this is one of the best looking video games of not only the mid 90's but even today, it is still marvalous!  The music in Mario 64 was just plain perfect, the music blended in with the games levels and star hunting, words cannot explain how well Miyamoto and Nintendo did for the music,it's just plain good!  The controls are also tight and well focused, I especially love the array of moves Mario has and although the controls may feel abit clumsy at times it never bothered me once!  As for camera, yes there were times were I wanted to break the tv but the reward and satisfaction of getting a star after that trouble feels so good!  Audio, controls, graphics are all A+ and as for gameplay?...Well it depends..Do you like platforming/action/exploring/collecting games because you will be collecting pretty much for the whole game(Stars, duuhhh)and if the answer is yes then this may be the best game you've ever played!  Now for me the gameplay was truly fun and innovative, I never got bored once in this game.  It's so fun, hunting for stars never gets annoying or frustraiting!  Speaking of difficulty the game is perfect, it's not hard nor is it easy like pie(acctually I take that back, for many people this game will be easy if you wanna just beat the plot)but it just gets it right on difficulty, I don't remember ever being frusraited or angry with the game(then again I never did try to get all 120 stars)and just having a great time with the game...it seriously is one of the funnest experiences I've ever had with a game and as I said before....this game is revolutionary!  Now that I'm done ranting and talking about this game I'll just get to it quickly...

The Good
-One of the best and most revolutionary game ever..period
-Back then and even today it is still one of the best looking video games ever made
-Loads of things to do
-Not hard, but not too easy, it's juuuust about right
-The game is just plain fun, the moves, the platforming, collecting, ect
-Collecting stars is really fun!
-The music in this game is just plain fun to listen to!!
-Though the bosses are easy I still think they're just classics!
-Will take a very long time to get all 120 stars, and collecting 120 stars means spending lots of time with this amazing title
-The worlds and places you visit are all so different and an amazment to look at

The Bad
-Some may feel that game is feeling abit dated now(the game is pretty old now!!)
-Some will find the graphics to be "terrible" or just "bad" which I find hard to believe
-People who just want to beat the games plot and nothing els shouldn't even touch the game(because the game doesn't take too long to beat for plot and if you're planning on not having a fun time with the game and just wanting to beat the game and getting it over with, what's the point of that?)
-Some will be angry with the camera
-Alot of people today or in the future may get this game and probably nag about how easy the bosses are well cry me a river, if you want a hardboss go play something els....other then that get ready to play one of the best games ever...

Overall Super Mario 64 stands up on its own.  The game was indeed revolutionary and braught us amazing visuals, superb gameplay and great controlls aswell as a fun adventure/like plot with lots of collecting to do.  The games music was just great to listen to, the places the game takes you are just so fun and innovative and the moves/mechanics that are enabled for Mario(though limited)are great!  The game is just plain great!  As I stated before, it is one of the best video games ever made and it indeed gets a perfect

5 out of 5 stars.....This game was a very fun game. You basicly go to a castle and you jump into a paintings.. each one leading you into a different world... and in every world... you have to find 7 stars... (one of em is the 100 coin star where you need to collect 100 coins then it pops up it's the hardest star to get)there's 16 worlds in all... most worlds take hours to complete so this game well be well worth it.. This game right here is history... It's one of Nintendo's biggest hits... and when you buy this game you'll soon find out why:)I stand behind this game being the best Super Mario game nintendo has produced. Too bad it was on a system that people didn't enjoy - too many complaints over the control and the game selection and graphics capability it was a true underdog. But Super mario 64 has so many good qualities

this game takes forever to beat. Some may think this is a nusance but its filled with many many wonderful levels of fun

each level is unique and its organized in a wonderful fashion, you never get too confused in nagivating the game

There is ALWAYS something new to find, and many races and somewhat minigames that are actually entertaining and not ultimately annoy you.

You get frusterated when you lose, you realize this isn't some easy game  you can breeze through, its actually difficult - appreciate that challenge because challenge is hard to come by in games these days.

Graphics aren't overdone. Good, you can find flaws, especially these days, the angles may alert some gamers as being old fashioned, but think about it like this... its not 2D. lol.

Overall, I love this game. Without a doubt, I consider it amongst the top 3 of my favorite games. If you haven't played this game, you are really missing out on something, go play it, you'll see how fun and exciting this game can be. and believe me - it only gets better.When this game came out, it was like a historic event.  It felt like there was no longer a limit to what video games could do.  Every toy store had a booth set up where you could give this game a try.  It was amazing to play and amazing to see.

This game is still amazing.  The play control is amazingly smooth, and you can make mario do some unbelievable things.  The worlds are amazing.  You can go wherever you want to go, do whatever you want to do.

Just look at the difference between this game, and the original Super Mario Bros. for NES.  My gosh, the difference is astounding.  It's amazing how Nintendo could take something so great and make it hundreds of times better in less than two decades.  Sometimes I love progress.Okay,the game is very addicting. The sound,graphics,gameplay is all great! But I discoverd something else funer. Super Mario 64 DS. That game is way better. This game is good but that game is something you can't keep your eyes off. Remember when you finish the game and eyerything to do and ther'es nothing left to do, well this DS game has mini games. They are very addicting and fun! You can draw on this as well. The adventure mode takes longer folks. You can play as Yoshi,Luigi,Mario Wario. In The beginning of Super Mario 64,you could just walk in. But thwe DS version is different. You have to collect a rabbit to get in. There is more room's in this castle too with more levels. Instead of collecting 120 stars. You have to collect 150. If you don't have enogh money for a DS and the game but have a N64,dust off the original and have some fun. Or go out and buy your DS and game. Get whatever. You have to play this though. If you don't think I'm right,then you will be sorry.One of the best games of its time, and is still considered by many to be one of the best games ever made. I highly recommed this game.My 5 year old son decided to murder my gamepad, and this is EXACTLY what i needed to repair it. The damage appeared to be from a red ink pen which he furiously scrubbed into the screen after he removed my screen protector(not a good day for anyone). The touch screen and its hard cover were both damaged.

Before you buy this part, look up some youtube videos on how to replace it, and decide if you're comfortable doing this.. It took me about an hour or two, to cautiously tear apart, and replace it. You will also need a special tri wing screwdriver to open the casing. It's nothing overly complicated, but you will be tearing your gamepad down to its bare bones since the screen in on the "bottom" of the device.

The screen i received had black trim on the front, which matched my black gamepad. Your mileage may vary on the color since it didn't specify in the item listing.

In the end, I replaced the screen and saved myself the pain of buying a new/used/refurb gamepad for $150-$180. If done properly, no one will ever know you opened the gamepad. There are no seals to break, or anything that would tip off Nintendo or Gamestop that you've tampered with it, in the event you send it in for warranty or trade it in.Here's a cool trick!(you have to have the 2nd key you get from Bowser)
Topic:Snowman has your hat
Sent in from:Anubis
Get your blown off by the big snowman. Don't pick your hat up at all. Instead go get a star (It dosn't have to be a new star)and save and turn off N64. Wait 10 seconds.....now turn N64 back on.
Go back to that level and one of the little snowmen that pops out of the snow will have Mario's hat on their head.Super Mario 64 is one of the best games ever. It's a classic, no Mario fan should be without it. Now, onto the reveiw:
Controls:9.5/10
It's pretty good compaired to some games, but most games have much smoother control. But since this is one of the first N64 games, I'm going to give it a good rating considering there are no PS2s, GCs, or Xboxs.
There's mario's famous jump, double jump, and triple jump. The double and triple jumps can be performed by timing when you press the A button.
There is also the groundpound aka buttstomp and other confusing jumps. Also, Mario can pick up and throw various items, climb walls using the wall jump,and punch and kick.
The reson why this game's getting a 9.5 is because some jumps can be hard to master, and controlling Mario can sometimes be hard.
Graphics:10/10
Like I said:This is one of the first Nintendo 64 games! So, it's okay that the graphics are a little blocky and not very detailed. The graphics are very well done.
Replay Value:7/10
The point of the game is to retrieve all of the castle's power stars and save princess Peach. There are 120 in all. You only need 70 to beat the game. Sure, it's fun to go back and beat the game a couple more times. But how much time are you going to spend getting all 120?Some stars are very hard to get, and after a couple of times, you might get frusterated and just give up!
Overall:10/10
Super Mario 64 is a brilliant game. Mario can be turned into metal Mario, invisible and fly by wearing special caps that last a certain amount of time. He can shoot from cannons and swing Bowser around by the tail. The courses are cleverly designed, everything is almost perfect. I use the word "almost" because nothing is perfect.REGISTER NOW!
Username

By now, many Mario fans have taken a look at either the Japanese or U.S. version of Super Mario 64, so we'll spare you (most of) the hype and rhetoric. Having said that, it must be stated that SM64 is the greatest videogame to date, and one which all games, regardless of genre, will be judged henceforth. Nintendo set itself a nearly impossible goal and achieved it with SM64. Look closely, Mario's lineage is 2D -- not ideal material upon which to base the most intensely scrutinized 3D videogame ever. But videogames are, in the end, meant to entertain. And entertainment is at the heart of this fantastic title.
Like many previous Mario games, experimentation is integral to the experience of playing. You must explore everything, leave no rock unturned, no mushroom mute, no door unopened. Mario himself has so many possible movements, and the environment is so intensely interactive, that even the least experimental players will spend hours on the first level without achieving anything in particular. The game is initially less accessible than previous Mario titles, although the three-pronged analog controller isn't really where the difficulty lies -- the joypad itself performs excellently. Overall, the biggest obstacle in the game is finding the correct viewpoint. The camera, which moves on its own (unless directed manually by using the four gold buttons), tries to find the optimal angle to view the action, though occasionally you're simply not able to see where you're going. Additionally, frustration sets in as you spin the camera around while simultaneously attempting to run across a moving plank or tip-toeing across a tiny ledge. But getting the hang of SM64 is all a matter of practice , and as soon you catch on, you will execute these skills unconsciously. The variety of levels and scale each world is simply breathtaking. The game consists of 15 massive courses in which Mario can attain seven stars per course, with numerous secret areas and bonuses, including 15 extra stars (for a total or 120 stars). It'll surely take the average gamer 60 hours to reach the third and final Bowser and free the princess (not to mention find Yoshi), so the game's replay value is bountiful. And despite all of their saccharin-sweet cuteness, the graphics are magnificent. Shigeru Miyamoto's dream of producing an interactive cartoon has been fully realized -- the animation is lavish, the textures rich, and even the most superfluous touches have been completely executed. SM64 is not perfect, however. Despite the efficiency of the hardware's Load Management, draw-in is noticeable, and occasionally gamers will look right through walls or objects. Still, this is as close to perfection a game has ever been (64-bit, no less). Super Mario 64 also puts Nintendo's preference of "silicon over CDs" to the test, with pleasingly familiar results. Most owners of either a Saturn or a PlayStation (or both), have by now acclimated to long load times, though grumblingly. Super Mario 64 will remind them of how gaming used to be: load time is nil, and reaching a playable level is only a matter of seconds. From the time you switch on the unit until you're done, the flow is seamless, and moving from one game area to another is instantaneous. Nintendo's musical prodigy, Koji Kondo, turns in an inspired performance, somehow finding room on the small cartridge to create the appropriate music for each world. Even though some tracks are cheesy, others, like the sitar-laden score of the first fire level, are more than effective in setting the mood for the level, and are as atmospheric as any Redbook audio. Also impressive are the sound effects: Mario's onscreen antics are matched by grunts, whoops, and hollers, fleshing out his spunky personality. As a whole, the flagship N64 game more than makes up for any painful delay (or delays) imposed upon the unit's release. SM64 is complete in every way, and the challenging experience of working toward each new level is far greater than the game's minimal flaws. Nintendo's craftsmanship and zeal for creating fantastically enjoyable games has never shown through more than in Super Mario 64. Nintendo 64's early flagship title demonstrates the power of the hardware as well as the creative genius of Miyamoto and team. Not only does the game obliterate every platformer before it in terms of visual finesse, it plays just as well if not infinitely better than previous 2D incarnations of the Mario franchise. 3D worlds are huge and cleverly laid-out so that there's never a dull moment. Secrets play a huge part of the experience, recapturing the classic gameplay style of the series. In fact, this game is exactly as one might hope it would be: Mario in 3D. More freedom, more space, more options, better graphics, improved and elaborated control schemes -- it's all there. Possibly the greatest videogame achievement ever. Don't rent. Buy.No matter how many times you beat this game you still want to play it again and again. Its because its tons of fun to get stars but also because the graphics are extremely well done and take up almost all of the system's power. Every level is great and the graphics are still awesome up to this day. In fact I like the visuals in this game more than some of the games for the 128 bit Game Cube including Super Mario Sunshine. The game play is very simple and easy but still manages to never lose a player's interest. I like to think of Super Mario 64 as a visually breathtaking masterpiece. The graphics are so awesome and the gameplay is very addictive even if youve already beaten the game 30 times it just never gets old.
  Also I heard a rumor that there is going to be a sequal called Super Mario 128. I hope it is even better than Super Mario 64 with harder challenges and more levels. Lets hope it has some of the things we love about Mario 64 plus great new surprises.I only bought a N64 recently, but played it numerous times at friends houses.  I've already got a PS2 with 38 games, and 6 for the N64, and have played god knows how many others but I have to say that Super Mario 64 is on my top 5 list!I got this game MANY years ago for the N64, and I just loved it! The game presented a large challenge, while at the same time made it very fun! The music is the best heard in a game, the graphics are superb for an N64 title, and this Mario game is a blast! I guess the most noticeable feature are the environments that the game provides. Every environment that Mario enters is just awesome! I especially love the Rainbow level and the Snow level where all of the penguins are. The best feature is the fact that every age group can enjoy the hours of entertainment from the game and they can all enjoy collecting stars from each stage to save Peach and defeat Bowser. Oh, by the way, the Bowser levels are AWESOME! Fighting Bowser himself is very fun as well! The game is also good in the fact that it provides unsatirical yet not stupid humor as well. This is great for younger gamers. I guess the worst part of Super Mario 64 is the lack of replayability. It's like Vice City where it will take months to play and finish the game, but once it's done, you won't want to play it again without getting bored. Once the ride's over, you'll feel like you can't go play it each day, and the game is kind of wasted in that aspect. Overall, if you are a fan of Mario or Nintendo, then this game may just be suited for your needs! My rating-9.2!This game is coooooollll! Me Abigail has this game and I have 120 stars. They were soo easy to find. I do not know how I became an expert at this. For your information, I am an expert in all of my video games. I must feel like the luckiest girl in the world. But I'll give you a little info:
Title: Rainbow ride/ Star#2
You'll have to take another magic carpet ride through low-flying areial obstacles to reach the cloud house. The blue blocks that float in your way are bigger on this carpet ride and you'll have to jump on them quickly before the carpet moves out from under your feet. The Magic Carpet will take you through the cloud house twice. On both trips, whatch out for the jet of fire that comes out from the fireplace! I'ts best to stay to the rear of the carpet until the fire is out, then go to theleading ledge of the carpet. If you get knocked off the carpet, it's a log trip back to a spot where you can remount it.( there's a warp to the top of the maze on the Cloud House Balcony.)the installation took a bit of work, youtube video's help quite a bit.
but what the video I watched DID NOT MENTION, is that if you replace your touch screen with this, then you'll see a very noticeable silver boarder around your screen, that is from the LCD panel it's self.
you'll need your old screen, SO DON'T TROW it out yet, you'll need to pry off the plastic black square (carefully) and place it on your new touch screen.
With this installed, the black square will cover up the silver boarder, and make your tablet look just like when it was fresh out of the box!"Super Mario" is arguably the most successful and most recognizable brand name in the history.  It seems that every time Nintendo releases a new episode in the series, it hits video gaming gold.  From the earliest release of the original "Super Mario Brothers" on the original Nintendo Entertainment System, it has always been a hit.  Even lesser known titles in the series, like "Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island", stay faithful to the series and produce very entertaining gameplay.  With the dawn of Nintendo's three dimensional, 360 degree rotating platform, Nintendo 64, the question became, "Could Nintendo maximize the potential of this new platform and give Mario a fresh angle?"  The answer, in the form of "Super Mario 64", proved to be a quite emphatic "YES!"

"Super Mario 64" takes the technique of 'multiple goals' for each level (introduced in "Super Mario World") and expands it in a quite impressive manner.  There are 15 worlds Mario must navigate in an effort to free the Princess who is trapped in paintings in her castle.  The goal is to accumulate at least 70 stars to unlock the passage way the final battle with Bowser.  As each world contains 7 stars of its own in addition to 15 bonus stars around the castle, it would seem to be a walk in the park.  However, all is not as it seems.  Several of the doors leading the different worlds are sealed off either by locks or star requirements.  Therefore, there is a limited amount of ways to accumulate the necessary stars until more stars are attained or earlier battles with Bowser are won.  Of course, this leads to a journey through amazing worlds were Mario travels the depths of the ocean, soars in the open sky, battles over scorching lava, and even gets to sneak through a haunted house.  The variety of worlds and objectives are truly amazing, as are the new moves Mario can make to help accomplish these goals.  No longer content to just move forward and jump, Mario can now do backflips, long jumps, wall leaps, and crawls.

One other aspect of "Super Mario 64" that makes it standout is its use of rotating camera angles to track Mario's movements through each world.  It takes some getting used to, but it enables a truly three dimensional feel.  This is game that Nintendo built its release of Nintendo 64 around.  It delivered magnificently then and, with its continual replay value, still delivers today.It was incredible to see this game when it came out in 1996, my brother and I had our minds blown. We lived in this game, and Mario Kart and thought entertainment would never be the same. Years ago, this was the one word on Videogames, it revolutionized everything and no one has duplicated it. A must-own and play. It's...just incredible.This game is great and fun to play. They are many powers that you can get like flying and so on. The color of the background is alright. The color look's smooth and rich and bright.
There are lot of bosses that you have to beat and alot of stars to find. In order to fine them look very, very, hard you never know a star could be under your nose.
The level's are cooler and better than the other old mario games that I playden in a long time.
The level's can be very very hot or very cold places or the level's can have water so you have to swim. Or some of the level's can be nice or normal.
In the game Mario can do some cool moves like back flip and so on. In the level's you don't get one star there are many star's in one level. Each level has many star's to fine. Get the star's and be very very powerful.I think Mario is a  great game. Fighting Bowser is the funnest part in this game. The best part is when you see Yoshi. Yoshi gives you 100 lives. It's fun looking for Mario's cap when Mario loses his cap. The game is one of the first 3D and is very good game for N64. Even thoughGameCube has the best graphics, the game is very graphical game. The game may have many challenges, even after you get 120 stars. This Mario game is very fun for N64 and I have to say this is one of the greatest hits I've ever had for N64.So what is Mario's quest this time? Save the Princess "Peach" by defeating the evil Bowser, while collecting 70 stars in only 15 levels (all 15 levels are contained in 1 huge castle). It might not be the best Mario game, but it offers a new 3D world and a whole new realism. It also has new features such as an energy feature, where rather than collecting power-ups like the fire flower, you now collect a gold coin and you get a block of energy back! Now Mario has far more of an offense rather than just stomping enemies, he can now throw punches, kicks and slide into enemies, making full use of the 3D plane. The enemies come to life in 3D, such as huge chain chomps, menacing goombas and annoying koopas The graphics could have been better, because they make enemies out of simple colors rather than textures like more recent games have. The music and sound effects are nice, because Mario now has a voice to be heard. There are however only minimal power-ups, such as Mario's Winged hat, which allows him to fly, and Mario's steel cap, making him invincible.1996 was a fairly important year in the realm of video gaming. The Super Nintendo Entertainment System dies out in the United States. Diablo comes out for the PC. However, the biggest news is the launch of Nintendo's amazing new system: the Nintendo 64, which was lauded for its beautiful graphics and a brilliant new controller.
Two games were released along with the system. There was Pilotwings 64, which was not exactly what was expected, but the other game was called the greatest game of all time (as of 1996, that is, at least in the eyes of critics) by several source. And it really was.
The first thing that strikes your eyes is its delicious eye candy. The first thing that pops out at you after the title is Giles Goddard's Mario face. And boy does it look good! But enough with the intro. It's time to see whether the game itself passes the graphics test.
Answer? Yes it does. Even after five years, Super Mario 64 is still one of the most beautiful games for Nintendo's crowning glory (speaking from a fanboy's POV.) The character and tree designs are very outdated by today's standards, but the water is still lovely (though surpassed) and some of the brick and stone backgrounds still are the most realistic that I have ever seen. Today the graphics would get a C by reviewers, but back in 1996, this game would get an A+.
But who cares how it looks. Let's see how it sounds.
The answer? Great! Before 1996, Nintendo fans never had a chance to hear Mario talk, but the first thing that greets you when you turn on the system is a jingle and the words "It's-a me, Mario!" and "Hello!" while a remixed version of the classic Mario theme plays in the back. But again, this is only the intro. The question is whether games sounds that good.
The answer, naturally, would be even better. Mario comes packed with a large batch of sayings including "Mama mia!", "Here we go!" and "Press start to play!" Unfortunately, everything else (other than Peach and Bowser) don't talk in anything else other than words. But remember the fact that this is a first generation cartridge game, and if people complain for Zelda, then they shouldn't complain here.
The music and sound effects are just divine. Outside the castle, you are greeted with the happy chirping of birds and the roaring of a nearby waterfall. Enter and the cozy castle theme starts playing. Each of the levels come equipped with music that ranges from peaceful to energetic to somber. The Bowser fight music ranges from rock to organ music, and it's all wonderful.
Now that the graphics and the sound are out of the way, let's get into the meat of the game: the gameplay.
The first thing most people would notice is how different this is from traditional Mario games. There are only 1-Up mushrooms, and the only pipe that appears is in the very beginning. However, Super Mario 64 is 3D, and most of those elements just wouldn't work in a 3D game.
The story, according to the manual, is that Peach invites Mario over to the castle for a cake. When Mario reaches the castle, he is greeted with a gruff voice. Wondering what went on, Mario explores the rooms and finds a giant painting where he can jump in. There, he finds himself in a new world, with a giant Bob-Omb on the top. He fights and defeats it (you'll have to do that part yourself) and gets a star. Later, he learns that Bowser has attacked the castle, captured the Princess, stolen the Power Stars, and has sent his army to take over the worlds inside the paintings, then the world itself.
Yeah, so it isn't much different from other Mario games, but that's not the point. The point is, there are 120 stars out there (although 70 is need to beat the game, but where's the fun in that?) for you to collect. Your misson to explore 15 worlds to find those 120 stars.
Well, instead of having a Super Mario and a Mario like in past Mario games, Mario has 8 life bars. Hitting certain enemies would make him lose 2 life bars, as well falling from semi-high heights. Burning Mario's butt will make him lose 3. Certain other enemies and falling from really high heights will make him lose 4. But don't worry. Coins and water will replenish your health. If you lose all 8 or fall down a pit, you lose a life. But for every 50 coins you get with a star and every 1-Up Mushrooms, you get a life.
Your moves include the standard running, punching, butt-stomping, as well as the kick, the long-jump, the wall-kick, the side-somersault, and the backflip. You can also swim! There are three special caps that gives you special abilities. The Flying Cap gives you the ability to fly. The Metal Cap gives you the ability to walk underwater and be immune to enemy. The Vanish Cap gives you the ability to walk through enemies and certain walls. Mario most employ all of those ablities to save the Princess and the world.
The Nintendo 64 controller, with its analog stick, makes it possible for Mario to perform the tasks successfully. (Just imagine travelling in a 3D world with a D-pad.) Some people complain about the camera angles and how you have to control them with the C-button. It may be annoying at first, but eventually you'll get used to it, and it'll come naturally, and you'll learn to play with the bad angles.
Super Mario 64 not only has good graphics, good sound, and good gameplay, but the fact that it is revolutionary (in that it brings gaming into the 3D world) makes it not only the best game of 1996, but possibly also the best game ever. That's right, even better than Castlevania and Super Metroid.Still the best 3D game on the market. Challenging, tons of fun levels and amazing gameplay. A true model for 3D games.Hello again, friends. What bad can be said about Mario 64? The polygons are smooth as silk, very, very, VERY rare slowdown, and the Mario we know and love.
Can anyone guess what plumber's job is in this game? It's to traverse 15 levels in search of Princess Peach. On the way, you have to stomp on Bowser's head. Thrice. All your favorite enemies are back, with the exception of Koopa Troopas. The goombas, shy guy, the Lakita Brothers, the moles, Bob-ombs, everyone's back!
At a graphics standpoint, Super Mario 64 is absolutely outstanding in every way, shape, and form. Kudos to Nintendo. 5 out of 5 for graphics.
A great soundtrack and a great Mario voice make for a great overall sound. 5 out of 5 for sound.
The huge worlds will keep you coming back for more. There is no way to put this thing down. 5 out of 5 for replay.
The final score? Go look at the stars.
See ya later. Go buy this game. Merry Christmas. Luv ya.This game was the premiere launch game for the Nintendo 64 when it premiered and despite the fact that it is only a single played game, pulls off fun gameplay and great graphics. Despite the fact of newer systems like Xbox, PS2, and even Nintendo's own Gamecube, I would still be happy to have this game sitting on my shelf next to games like Red Faction and Halo. This game prved itself showing off the power that the Nintendo 64 had and showed it off to the loyal people who bought one instead of a PS-X and even those who (like me) bought both a Nintendo 64 and a PS-X. But, not to mince words I'll explain the game. You are Mario one of the most well known characters in video game history. You play through this adventure all in 3D. This was one of the true selling factors of this game as it was Mario's first true step into the Third Dimension (Hushed Gasp). But, the game sold great and over time has proved in it's own right that it is a classic.The Mario series from Nintendo has consistently produced games that are refreshing and innovative, not to mention extremely addictive and fun to play.  First there was the original Super Mario Brothers and Super Matio Brothers 3 for the NES, to Super Mario World for the SNES, and now Super Mario 64 for the N64.  The game is 5 years old now, but it's still just as fun to play as ever.  The graphics and sound make excellent use of the N64's capabilities to create a 3D world that was just jaw-dropping in 1996 and is still pretty awesome today.
As others have said, the basic story of the game is classic Mario:  Bowser has kidnapped the Princess, and Mario must rescue her.  To do this, he must collect a minimum of 70 stars from the 15 worlds in the game.  These worlds are accessed by jumping through paintings and other objects scattered throughout the Mushroom Castle, plus there are 15 stars contained within the castle itself.  Although you only need 70 stars to finish the game, there are a total of 120 stars available for collection, and you won't be satisfied until you have collected each one.  The 15 worlds have varying levels of difficulty, but each and every world has some easy stars and some that are very difficult.  It took me about 100 hours total to collect all 120 stars and rescue the Princess the first time.  Each level has a different theme.  Some are on mountains, some are in water-filled caves, and there is one set inside a giant clock.  My personal favorite is the haunted house level.
The gameplay in Mario 64 is exceptional.  Mario has many different types of moves, ranging from tiptoeing around sleeping enemies, to a great long jump, to a very difficult-to-master wall jump.  You must master all the moves if you expect to get all 120 stars.  Also, there are three special hats scattered throughout the game that allow Mario to fly, walk underwater, and become invisible.  Again, all are vital for 120 stars.
After you finally win, you might expect that you will never want to take on such a huge task again.  But, such is not the case.  Even though you have all 120 stars, you can go back to levels you have beaten and play them over and over, as much as you want.  You'll be tempted to do just that.  The experience of playing through the incredible world of the Mushroom Castle is such that you will be coming back for many repeat visits.Greetings, I am Oklonia. My review of Super Mario 64 is right here.
Super Mario 64 is a game that all master N64 gamers have to own!
I don't even need to tell the story. What's happened? The same traditional story: Bowser kidnaps Princess Toadstool,
Mario finds the princess, rescues her, and destroys Bowser.
Capcise.
The courses and star's names are quite creative. (e.g. Lil' Penguin Lost) They are more riddles though.
The graphics are so sharp looking and realistic, that maybe just a few could go on GameCube. (GCN)
Despite a few annoying sounds and no multiplayer mode, Super Mario 64 is really super!
This has been Oklonia.Super Mario 64 was one of the first games for the Nintendo 64 and to this day is one of the best.  Mario 64 is the be-all and end-all of 3-d platforming.  Mario has 120 stars to collect in many different worlds.  Mario swims, flies, jumps, runs and crawls.  This game is immense fun, and definitively replayable.  A masterpeice by Shigeru Miyamoto.This is one of the best Mario games I've ever played. The game starts out when Mario gets a letter from Peach to come to the castle. Mario is so excited he rushes to the castle. When he gets inside he hears a voice that tells him to scram, and that's when his adventure begins. The first world is very easy but then they start getting more diffucult as you progress. The thing that makes this better than any other mario game is that you have more enemies, stars to collect, a race with a penguin and much more. If you don't have it yet, buy it!Super Mario 64(1997) When I first got Nintendo 64,it came with Super Mario 64. When the system was hooked up,I put in the game,and was amazed on how the graphics were! It was excellent. The graphics were great,the music was cool,and Mario never looked better! This game is for everyone. I thought Banjo-Kazooie was a great game,but move over Banjo,Mario is back! The best game ever. Features new worlds,characters,setting,and don't worry some of the old villians from the early Mario games are here,and can't forget Bowser and Princess Toadstool(Peach).Better than any 64 game ever made!Super Mario 64 was the first game to be available for the N64. I remember the first time it came out, how it's graphics, music and gameplay really amazed me. Sadly, very few games came after it to give much competition. To this day, it still remains one of the best N64 games out there. The sheer scope of the game is enough to pick it up. It's made up of 20+ levels that can be played in a semi-non linear order. The graphics are bright and clear, and the animations are creative for each character. Gameplay is pretty deep, but extremely intuitive and becomes second nature after playing for a short time. The real plus in this game is the music, some of the most catchiest to be written for a game to date. Pick this one up for both its historical value and for the fact that its a great game.Even though this game is almost 4 years old-it is still one of the best games that the N64 has to offer.  Why?  Well dear reader I will tell you why.  SUPER MARIO 64 is a gaming revolution,  it was the game that everyone had to have.  It took Mario into a whole new atmosphere.  The world that is inside Princess Peach's(aka Princess Toadstool) castle is immense and highly imaginative.  Although the graphics may seem a little bit dated(it was a launch game remember that) it is still a sight to see.  As far as play control goes, it is a bit difficult to get the hang of moving Mario around, but once you get used to it then controlling Mario is a breeze.  In fact it is some of the best playcontrol that a game has to offer.  The Super Mario 64 storyline is familiar to Mario fans but at the same time a touch refreshing.  Yes Peach is captured but she is being held prisnor in her own castle(in a picture in fact), and one of the funnest parts of the game is hanging out outside.  One of my problems is that Luigi is not in the game, in fact no mention of him is made either.  Nintendo should have left the Mario Party franchise alone and focused on creating a Super Mario 64 2, but alas they didn't.  So if you own a Nintendo 64 and don't have this title, or are thinking of buying a N64, then get Super Mario 64 because it is by far a true gaming experience.Super Mario 64, is a Classic pure and simple. And, there's not much else I can say. It's a really good game, With alot of stuff that's fun to come back and do. You, can fly around with your Wing cap, Or Slide down a huge sliding board of Ice! Mario 64 is Pure classic, Pure fun.I can play this game comfortably on my old XP machine without a special video card. That's worth a lot in my book. Not to mention the joy of spending most of my gaming time BUILDING rather than destroying. However, if you want, you can sick all kinds of crises and destroy the city if you want.... sometimes that's fun. This is a great strategy game.Ever since I got this game I've loved it, i lost it so i recently had to buy another one, but you get the hang of things pretty quickly... very very fun game!Does what it says it should do! I don't use it much now that I have a PS2 again and a Nintendo 64, but my little brothers and sisters use it, and it works just fine. Toodles!lot of people don't like RALLY because they already tried gran turismo game. to tell you the truth gran turismo RALLY physic is just boring boring boring. gran turismo only good for racing simulation but RALLY part is suck!!!!  dirt 2 amazed me how much fun it was and now dirt 3 with 3 time more race tracks than dirt 2.  MUST BUY!!!!!!!!!!My son sayes he is still learning how to customize the levels and is having some trouble changing ships. He liked 2006 better as it is easier to use. Will get in there and read the book..So I got this and first it was kind of tedious but then I added weather and well the titanic in a hurricane can be a hoot I got 08 cause my laptop is horridly slow but when I get my hands on more computer power I'm going to get ship simulator extremes you tube gives you a good idea what to expect check it out there and see if its for youThe most amazing graphics you could see! If you own a flight simulator yoke and/or throttle quadrent you can make your gaming experice easier. The Crash effects may not show in trailers or videos, but in the actual game you can see the damage. I higly recomend to purchase this product. Happy Sailing! To Reader: THIS IS NOT A LITTLE LITTLE KIDS GAME IT IS COMCLACATED!This game is a good way on getting at the helm of the RMS Titanic and I am very well satisfied with it. I do hope that any of you who does decied ot buy it will also enjoy it.made the controller easier to grab, easier to hold, and more comfortable in the hands. overall I would buy it again. its cheap and a great addition to the controllerI've bought these before.  They slip right on and unless you get one with an obvious defect, they should last for years.  These are a must have if you are afraid of your kids messing up your controllers.  Then again, maybe they should get their own! lolPut on my controllers so it would like not get wear and tear and they are great! BUY! THEM!! AMAZINGI bought this from amazon seller likeelectronic Ship FM Hongkong for under $3 shipped.

The one I got fits the controller excellently! Smooth rubber, it feels very comfortable while playing games, you don't even notice it.  My hands sweat a LOT during Call of Duty hours sessions without this case on it, adding this onto my controller pretty much has eliminated that.  Great Case from seller above.I was scared to stretch the silicone during application, but afterward it fit very snug.  It makes the controller feel much better.My son loves it he says it makes it more comfortable and easier on his hands for those marathon Black Ops 2 sessions.I like this product because it means you can have little to no cleaning maintenance kept up on your controller which is cool and it keeps the controller nice and smooth which is great for long gaming sessions.Unlike others on this site, these fit very good and the material is durable, which is of utmost importance to me.  I'm glad I found this item.This is a must have for any gamer. Codemasters really hit a home run on this one. I would like to see F1 2011 be this good using the ego engine 2.0 and the physics model in this game is right on the money. This game is the reason everyone should buy the best graphics card they can afford. I am using a nvidia 460 overclocked, and I have on order a 590. I want to run this game with everything on highest level. I swear to you that even with the 460 + , the graphics are very realistic and I really enjoy racing at ground level. This game makes Codemasters the king of graphics realism. BUY THIS GAME !!!!!

December 6, 2011  I saw my review of the Internet and wanted to update it for you. First of all anyone with this program, BUY the extra environments and cars. It is money well spent and a first class job of an addon. I wanted everyone to know that this program is still the top of the heap in graphics. I bought Battlefield 3 and it is good, but not the standard of the ego 2 engine. Codemasters are the king of graphics so far and I find that the more realism a game has, the more adicted you will become. No other program running with all variables to the max, looks like Dirt 3. Thank God for codemasters and I can hardly wait for GRID 2 in the summer.covers the controller more then others and is pretty durable, great grip to it as well and keeps its color, looks solid.My brother had one of these for the longest time so I used his until he wanted it back.  I found this a lil while ago and have been loving it ever since, giving the controller much needed grip and makes holding it for long gaming sessions much more comfortable.As soon as I slipped this on my controller, I knew that I'd never take it off!!  It makes the controller much more comfortable in your hands, and does not slip if you play for a long time and tend to get sweaty fingers!This is a good buy but... if you get the thumb grips for the xbox 360 controllers they will get stuck on the silicone so its not like the picture and it shows at the joystick the silicone is way back its really up close to the sticks and you will have to cut it back IF you get the thumb grips, now it could just be only my silicone case but I don't know.I'm revising my earlier review. i had only rated my transaction 3 stars previously due to shipping problems. After the seller contacted me to do what they could to help with the problem I have to reconsider. They contacted me promptly and went above and beyond in their effort to make me happy. Thank you. This was the second case I've purchased and would recommend it to anyone. Thanks again.This thing is so inexpensive and makes the controller much more comfortable to hold for hours on end. Item is very well manufactured and fits like a glove. It also helps your hands breathe a little bit if you have sweaty hands. For less than the cost of a gallon of gas You can't not afford to get this thing! Better grip, looks sharp, and is thin enough that it does not make the controller more bulky in anyway.easy to put on and take off, good grip, cheap price, just don't rip it apart to see how strong it is and write a review about it and it's be fine :DAwesome sillcone cover for my xbox 360 controller. Fits well, but collects dust sometimes.Easy install and feels great. The skin fits really well and functions properly. I did have to trim up around the triggers because they moved around while I used them, but after that it was perfect.this is a great quality skin. I was surprised of how comfortable it is. Especially how it'd keep the controller clean.Grips the controller amazingly, great for long gaming sessions as your hands get sweaty and hot during those times. The cover literally wicks it away, feels very rubbery, yet thin enough to be really comfortable!! I simply love it, it can get dirty since it catches dust rather easily, nothing a little simple green and a wipe can't take care of. 5 stars, this product is absolutely needed, wish the consoles came with it, out of the box!nice skin for xbox controllers makes them more slip free and smooth softer too good deal and nice stuff try oneI love this thing, It makes your controller look badass and is so soft.  It has a great feel to it, way better than plastic, even if you have a Black controller this will improve it.  The seams on the side are my only tiny concern.  Add this with the Grip-it, blue analog covers and you have a great controller for cheap.  I can`t say enough about the comfort.  fantastic!Considering its just a rubber cover for the XBOX 360 controller, actually, it's made well...and the price--not bad at all. Excellent product for an excellent controller.This is the best ps2 memory card I know of. It's perfect if you have games that take 1,000KB or more of your memory. If you need more memory, this is for you.And at 128mb you will die before you run out of room on it.
I remember when the memory cards were 8mb and i only ever needed 6 of those for my whole PS2 collection.

Overall its great, and must have for anyone still stuck in he 90si like bf games and this works with my wireless xbox 360 controller ( i don't have a xbox i use it for pc games)This is a great buy. Works just as well as the Sony ones at a lot better price. Would definitely recommend and order again.You read right. 128MB. Not the normal 8MB almost all the cards were.
You get 128MB and you also get to use them, (PS2 slim is what I used). The memory card manager reads you have ~126,345KB free.Loaded most of my old PS2 saves on it due to several of my memory cards are missing files from 9 years ago. I am satisfied.This is a lot of memory for my old PS2 so I can store huge amounts of game data. All for a very low price! Perfect.I bought this as a gift for a family member and he has not had anything negative to say about the product. He seems to be quite satisfied.Good value and work perfectly in my PS2. I actually bought two of these last year and they are still working great! Fast shipping from seller Mahmaou!It works great, I transferred all of my info from my other memory card and it works great. the only thing I noticed one of the screws was a little loose but I read that's how it supposed to be, if they are too tight card may not work. I'm a happy camper now because I can play all my old PS 2 games again.All I can say is... wow. This works perfect. It is more space than I will ever need, but the more the merrier. Right? Oh, one more thing: A lot of people said that it takes a long time to save, and boy they were right! Plus, I unscrewed the screws slightly so the little PCB chip moves around a bit. It came in an OK time, but gosh it was worth it.My daughter found the old PS2 game system for her youngest son and didn't have but one or two games, no memory cards, etc. We found what we needed on Amazon!These cards allow me to save a large amount of downloads, and they are compatable with my PS2, they rock!I am glad that I had purchase this 128MB memory card. This was recommended to me here in Amazon by another gamer.daughter still loves her play station needed a bigger memory card for a couple games so searched amazon and found this to order for her.Cam quick and works like new.  It is everything that I expected it to be and plus it was cheap.This memory card has unleashed my games from start, but don't stop gameplay to awe yeah, now let's get some lunch... Save! gameplay. Holds up well, saves and loads reliably, does what a card should do: Save my Games!!this has huge memory for ps2 and is great because it can save a more than a few games and save you some moneyWorks great!!! I suggest this to anyone! It's a great price as well! Overall I'm very happy with the purchase!!I have the old, fat PS2. So far no problems at all with this memory card. Very inexpensive, lots of storage space! Great buy!Not much you can say on this item except it does what it is suppose to do. It stores a lot of gamesThese are great little cards to store games on.it save you money also. they come in very handy. Thank you Brenda ONealWhy was every memory card 8 mb when i was young, i could have just owned 1 of these and not had to budget my memory space. i cant even fill a tenth of this thing, awesomeSo far so good it saves the games that need to be saved.  I would buy another one if I had to.PS2 Memory Card 128MB for Playstation 2.  This will help me keep from having so many memory cards nothing more annoying than having to get another card cause you filled yours up if there was only a way to have save states on this system:)Love it very nice Love it love it love it there is not much more I can say but I love itI've always hated dealing with running out of room on my 8 MB and 32 MB PS2 memory cards, but now that I have this bad boy I never run out of space. Fantastic product for such a cheap price. Wish I could have found this years ago.the Play Station 2 memory card works quite well and I can store as many games as 16 8MB cardson time and in good  work good  and i will like more  to see like that  think you  very muchWork great and plenty on memorey. I love it. This is great if you play slot of games. You won't run out of memory.it is very I am enjoying it very much and I really love it thanks a whole lot appreciate itQuite simply, if you have a ps2 you need a memory card. The 128MB card should do the trick for any gamer.The PS2 memory cards are essential for a PlayStation 2 system.... particularly for the `Slim' models, which do not allow for the use of a hard drive and with 128 MB... more than enough storage space for games (and saves from starting over each time when playing games).  Great deal.Got it and it works perfectly. Did not have to loosen to screws on the back to make it work. A great buy.For a third party memory card, it does the trick for saving your favorite games. Instead of having piles of memory cards, you can now have just 1 to save a lot more save files. I'd recommend this to anyone that has had to either delete old save files or get another memory card to save more of their games.Dirt 3 on DVD
i collect racing games so had to add this to my collection
Son wated one alsoGreat to deal with.  Got exactly what we ordered and in a very timely fashion.  Trustworthy vendor for ordering product.It came on time in great shape!! It is so new! Looks better then I tought it would!! LOL! I can not wait to try it out!!I chose this product rating because it had great shipping, great product discription. I would recommed this product to any one who plays PS2 games.Very good article, very good deal nice, very good price, item arrived on time, the packaging had an acceptable sizeThis item is just great. it has 128m storage. You don't have to worry about memory storage for ps2 anymore. you can play hundreds of games without deleting saving file.If you want a lot of memory , then this is for you.  Best quality , best priced memory card on the InternetHello, i must say this card does just what it says, it holds all of my PS2 game saves, i have always wanted to use one "Memory Card" for all saves. The card holds 128MB and after saving all my saves i have 110MB left and i have well over 60 Playstation 2 games, it`s like having a "PC Hard Drive" in the PS2 and now that i know the card really do work, i will be ordering quite a few more before they are no longer in stock. It does not take much to make me happy and this makes me very happy, now i must get more PS2 games, i have 2 PS2, 2 PS3, 1 PSP, 1 Tablet, 2 Laptops and 2 Desktops all for gaming, i love gaming and proud to say i am a 56 year old gamer, started in 1992, love it.
  Thanks<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/PS2-Memory-Card-128MB-for-Playstation-2/dp/9629971372/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">PS2 Memory Card 128MB for Playstation 2</a>I saw the ad and I was in need of new PS2 memory cards, so I ordered them.  The ad was accurate.  The company shipped them ot promptly.  They arrived in my mailbox in excellent condition.  I would buy from this company again.  Fantastic job!!!Lo recib hace cuatro das y estoy super contento, funciona excelente, tanto la consola como la tarjeta de memoria. Excelente resolucin, cero calentamiento. Lo recomiendo a ojos cerrados.Holds all the memory you need, and Great quality and Great price, Mega Fun, So go get your game on,If you insert the card in your PS2 and it doesn't work, untighten the screws on the back of the card a bit. (there are 2). you will need a precision philips screwdriver.

Put the card into your PS2 and boom, it works! Someone else suggested this and it worked like a charm. Seems like they are tightened too much at the factory and in some way, it interrupts the memory on the card.

This card is great, holds a ton of memory, the most you'll need really. Haven't had a problem with it since. Fairly sturdy for what it is.I like this because I have multiple game consoles and a dvd player. This let's you hook up up to three game consoles or dvd players. As long as you buy this from a us store it works. I bought it from china once and only one game console port worked. But I bought this one from NY and all three ports work. I have no complaints now. I currently have 2 game consoles hooked up to it with one dvd player. I have 2 tvs and this let's me play a game and watch tv at the same time so cool. I give this product a thumbs up...Bought this in late 2011 and is still going strong.  Works great and has stood up to three kids. Solid. No issues.works great. Glad i bought this. It switched the signal perceftly. we have a WII, PS2 and DVD player hooked up to it.I've been wanting one of these for a while. I would find it so annoying having to unplug my cable to plug in my Xbox wires and then having to do the same again when i felt like watching tv. But with this i just have to flip a switch and it's done.Very good product.works great for the many systems and players we have and for the price you sure cant beat it.This worked great for my needs, my kids are able to have all their games hooked up.  Easy to connect and set up.saves so much room!!! everyone need one of these, play the ones you want, when you want. your kids will love it.what can i say? very cheap - works great. if u need a simple switcher for rca plugs, get thisNo problems.  Plugged it into my son's old SD TV that has one AV input and it works just fine.  I have threee different connections going in and he does not have any  trouble switching between any of them.  Cheap and easy fix to an old TV.when theres not enough plugs for your consoles this is your solution. have seen other ones not as nice as this one that costed way more happy I found itI bought this because my HDTV only had one S-Video/AV input. The rest were HDMI/DVI-Audio/PC/USB inputs. Seeing as though I like to play game consoles such as Dreamcast, N64 & the Wii, I've decided to buy this to hook up such consoles into it. The AV selection works nicely. You just switch and that's it. This device is highly recommended.I purchased these for my Wii as Nintendo no longer produces Wavebird controllers by virtue of them being sued by a patent owner over the technology. I didn't want to pay for a used Wavebird on eBay, so I bought some of these. I sit back from my HDTV about 9 feet so I needed these for the wired Gamecube controllers and they work very well. Even with Mario Kart Wii, there is some lag with the Wavebird, but there is no lag with these extension cables. Highly recommended!Cheap and quality product. Almost doubled my controller wire so now I can sit far away from the TV. Doesn't seem to add any noticible lag or such.

Recommended product.Works exactly as advertised. Bought these along with a 2-pack of controllers for the GameCube, as my TV is a ways away from my couch and i wanted to play multi-player with my wife. The controller plugs into the extension cable about as snugly as the controller (and the other end of the extension cable) plugs into the GameCube, which is to say plenty snug enough to keep it in while moving the controller and cable around semi-violently, but not snug enough to keep a controller attached after being thrown across the room (just an example). One major concern I did have when I bough these was the possibility of lag due to the signal from the controller having to travel farther. This concern was unwarranted, as I have noticed no difference in response time either way. On durability, I've had these for almost 2 years and they haven't shown any noticeable signs of wear. Throw in a reasonable price ($4 when I bought it from Amermedia in 2012) and this is a heck of a deal for people that need a product like this. I would recommend.I bought these to extend the length of the game cube controller reach. Everyone that uses these has no issues with poor controller reaction times and can sit just about anywhere to play.This Cable extender worked great! I used it when and had absolutely no problems with it at all! It adds a good 6ft of extra cable length. I tried hooking two together and I found no extra input lag using these cables.

Great if you need the extra cable!And now I can sit back far enough to see my entire TV and avoid wielders burn in my retina.  So simple, yet so obvious a necessity given how freaken short the big "N" made their controller's cords.  Buy them now and heal your spine!For people who still have a GameCube, but don't have a wireless controller (don't bother, you'll be disappointed because none of them come with the damn adapter,) these cords are fantastic. I can take my controller all over the house with them if I please, and they don't cause lag or short out to any degree I can tell. They're not shoddily-made and have lasted well so far. I'd buy them again.My nephew wanted an older gamecube game to play in our Wii. Once I purchased the game for him, we found out that the Wii controllers won't work with the gamecube games when played in the Wii. After doing a little research, I realized we needed the classic gamecube controller and a gamecube memory card. Once we got both of those, the gamecube game that we bought finally worked! After playing the game for a bit while being "tethered" to the Wii system because of the cable for the controller, we decided we needed extension cables to have a bit more freedom. So we got these controller extension cables. He is happy!These cords worked great for me and makes my gamecube controllers long enough so I can relax on my couch and play gc at the same time
Also shipped fast I recommend this productThis is a great product that works exactly as the product page states - it extends the reach of the gamecube controller cable by 6 feet. Seems sturdy, and the connection is nice and tight so it doesn't fall off by itself. Not detecting any latency between hitting the controls and actions happening in-game.These awesome-sauce things make any GC controller as far extended as a wavebird. Given these days any games I have time to play are all via the Wii anyway, having the extra length for GC controllers is great.It works as advertised.
No issues or problems.
The product was received as expected.
The product worked as expected.
Excellent product.
Well done.With the amount of interference I kept getting with the wireless controllers, I was stuck far too close to the TV to enjoy many of the visual aspects of the classics. This cable extension cord made playing some of my old Gamecube games just as fun as the day it came out. A big must have if you can't get the wireless format to work properly.this really cam in handy we need a extra length for the controller and it was perfect exactly what we neededWhen the gamecube came out, we all had 19, 20 or 24 inch CRT televisions.  The standard 6 foot gamecube controller cord was acceptable.  But now that we have these 50+ inch TV screens, 6 feet just doesn't cut it.

I've used 2 of these cables for about 6 months to play games on my gamecube and wii.  Everyday I wrap the cords back up around the controller and tuck it away.  All that twisting of the cords has had no effect on the connectors.  They operate just great.  The 2 pack was enough for me to sit about 15 feet back from the console and still have slack.

I'd recommend this to any gamer that uses their gamecube controller on their wii or gamecube and wants to sit back a bit from their TV.  Their "may" be a wireless alternative to a gamecube controller for these older games, but I couldn't beat the price.  I didn't bother even looking for an alternative.I rated this product as I have because it exceeded my expectations. Also, I would recommend this product to others.The gamecube controller wire is length has always been annoying. Once got these that solved that problem. They work great, fit right, and do not cause any controller lag. Great buy.I can now sit on the couch to play instead of putting a chair in front of the TV. There are no problems.With this older non IR system I need to extend the controller with a reasonable item. This fit the bill with no problems.These extenders work as expected. I bought them when I wanted to buy Double Dash for the game cube to play on my Wii. If you're used to playing the Wii, you probably sit much further away than a standard GC controller will reach, so definitely pick some of these up.At 6 feet and at 4 dollars each its a good deal, ive seen some other cables for much more and these work just fine, i like that they're black  and they connect into the controller with ease. buy it with confidence.This isn't a particularly deep product. They are wire extenders to be used for the Nintendo Gamecube controllers. They come in a pack of two which is fantastic for the cheap price. They extend approximately 6 feet in length, and with the already fairly long wire on the Gamecube controller already, these come in handy if you need to sit somewhat far away in a regular sized room. I have had no trouble with these at all as they function properly and connection just as easily to any controller. Getting these beats paying the higher price for the Wavebird wireless Gamecube controllers. I'm on a budget so I'll just stick with a wired controller, no big deal.I bought this for my gamecube contoller to plug into my wifes wii. It as more than enough to allow comfort and ease of the controller.I play Brawl and Melee all the time with my siblings and friends, and sitting squished together 3 feet from the tv was a pain. So I got these cables because it was cheep and could solve most of our problems with this, even if it did not look like they would last long from some of the reviews. but when i got these they worked great and did not seem cheap at all. I expected there to be lag with the controls, but there wasn't. They have survived a month of intense fighting and are still in top-notch condition. These are great if you need room or do not like sitting 3 feet from the screen.I always hated how Gamecube controller's cords were so ridiculously short. Since I use them on my Wii now, it is much more hazardous for my Wii if someone trips over the short cables. This was a perfect solution to my problems. So far I haven't had any problems with them and they allow me and my friends to not sit 6 ft away from the Wii. Another great thing about these is that you can plug them end on end to make a longer cable.They're awesome cables though!  They work great and add those several feet you always seem to lack.  Now I can play my Gamecube games on my Wii from the couch!  No batteries to change!I bought 2 sets of this product (so 4 cables total). I was not disappointed. They all work perfectly and they accomplished what I bought them for. I have 2 big screen TV's and the 2 rooms I use for these have couches that sit back a lot further than the standard gamecube controller cord would reach. Hook 1 of these extensions up to each controller and problem solved. I also like the length because I still had room to go back farther but this allowed each cord to rest on the ground so there is less of a tripping hazard for those people that never fail to walk in front of everyone and don't pay attention to the cords. They even work for Bongos so that is a nice feature to be able to move the bongos back as well for those games.i bought the 2 x Wii Gamecube GC Extension Cable Cord  but after a few uses, it started working wrong, duplicating signals

if i press A in the controller, the game detects A being pressed two times, this is for all buttons,  without the cord the error is no longer there.Bought a Gameboy Micro here on Amazon. It didn't come with a charging cable. So in a pinch I ordered one of these. It was to my house within 48 hours and it works great!!! This product does not work with Gameboy Advance or Advance SP, or the Nintendo DS/DS Lite/3DS/2DS lines. This is specfically for the GBMicroCharges the gameboy! What a wonderfully futuristic and awesome age we live in!I thought it didn't work so I sent it back. Bought another and I think I've learned the problem lies in my GameBoy Micro :(Looking for a replacement? Buy this, it works. Have had it for about a year or more now and it hasn't let me down.This charger is constructed as well as one would expect for the price. I don't abuse my chargers, so I'm not worried.  Retractable prongs are a plus. Works well. I'd buy another if I needed it.the charger is okay and works perfectly it is also the original nintendo one with the logo and everything !Seriously its a small adapter that charges a Micro Game boy. Yes it charged my Game boy fine, and that's all there is to this review.they just don't make any chargers for this and are hard to find so this is just a life saver for meIts a charger. Not name brand. But it worked. Would buy again if I needed to. Need four more words.I bought an old game boy micro off the internet and ordered this charger separate. I worried it would not work, but it fully charged the unit within an hour. Great product!I still remember when I first bought this game back in 1997.  It was when I first got my PS and I wasn't disappointed.
The graphics were pretty crisp and clear and it had a nice little selection of playable characters including Spiderman, Iron Man, The Hulk, Psylocke, Wolverine and others.  For those who played Marvel vs. Capcom 2 before this one, the movement may feel a little slow to you.  However, this was the first of the Marvel vs. Capcom style games so don't expect it to be as good as MVC2.
The default controls for this game are the easiest to work with of any of the Marvel titles.  You'll find it easy to learn and it fits the PS controller perfectly.  Air combos can be pulled off easily but it may take a while for some to learn how to do them.
On this game you'll find that the characters hyper combos are much more powerful than they are on MVC2.  However, since this was the first of these type of fighter games, the characters have less moves to execute.  The thing that really separates this game from all of the others is the Gems.  There are 6 Gems that you may use during battle and different ones have different effects on certain characters.  For example when Juggernaut uses the space gem, he turns silver and gains super armor.  When Psylocke uses the Power gems she creates 3 copies of herself so then it's like fighting 3 of them at once.  The final boss on this game is Thanos.  He's better than the boss on the other Marvel titles because he's actually a challenge.  He automatically starts the match with all 6 gems and he also has 6 different hyper combos he can do with each gem.  Also this game actually has endings for the characters and the music is superior to all of the other titles except for Marvel vs. Street Fighter.
I recommend you buy this game if you can find it for a reasonable price.  You won't be disappointed.  It may seem outdated for those who played MVC2 before playing this but it's still enjoyable.Forsaken 64 is one of those games that you never heard of and play it anyways and you find it to be an awesome game. The single-player is intense and the multiplayer is crazier than that. The game itself has six-degrees of freedom so you can shoot upside-down, sideways, etc. The single-player has tons of missions and you will not get through it in one setting. I never actually figured out how to save the game, but I will figure it out eventually. The multiplayer you can either play with bots or with your friends. The game supports 4-player multiplayer, even thought sadly I've only played it with only one other person. The multiplayer game is like a deadlier version of hide and seek because the maps are so big. One thing I like about playing it with bots is being able to play it splitscreen so it's like there are 3 other people in the room with you. Overall, the game is great and is a definite buy for every N64 fan!Game works great, amazing story that brings back childhood memories, i love it!!! Awesome game to have that is old school.Looking anywhere else people will charge more than $80 for an old wonderful game like this. Classic games like these are hard to come by, wish I had traded in LESS of my games when I was young.Megaman legends is capcoms answer to bringing Megaman into the 3d realm on the original playstation. However this game is extremly diffrent then any other megaman game out there. In fact it has a lot in common with zelda: ocarina of time and a few rpg elements such as final fantasy while still somewhat feeling like a Megaman game. Coming from the NES and SNES Megamans I never thought I would ever compare zelda and megaman together but surprisingly it works well. Its not the greatest  game or even the greatest megaman game ever but it is really fun in its own way.

Most people do not like the graphics in this game but i think there done really well. The only problem graghicly is due to the early psx hardware most 3d games looked blocky and pixely at the time and this on tries to smooth things out kinda cel shadish but not quite this leads to some blockeness but its still better then most 1998 and before graphics. Kinda a 3d playable anime style to it. The sound isn't to bad in this game. Voice acting can be really good or painfully bad andThe music is catchy maybe not as much as the nes megamans but still good. However there is moments without any music. Technically speaking I would say the game has aged well.

The thing I find most memorable about this game is the gameplay. Like I mentioned earlier this game takes megaman into zelda like enviorments with a few rpgs elements. There is a open world which was decent in size for its time, which the game takes place in a small town. There are dungeons to explore which you do so in order to find upgrades to your equipment. Speaking of which you can purchase and find diffrent armor and weopens with diffrent specs (attack, fire rate, etc) in a rpg like menu. With that being said it still manages to feel like a megaman game. There is plenty of missions of which you are running and gunning while jumping on platforms. The bosses while set up like zelda can be taken down easier by weopens you find around in dungeons.

As for the story it isn't to bad. It is a little childish but its still pretty good. The characters while the voice acting can be off at times can be good are very memorable. Tron Bonne makes her debut here as a villian who became popular enough to get her own game misadventures of tron bonne and a apperance in marvel vs. capcom 2 and appearing without megaman in the 3rd. There is also a N64 port of this game which isn't as good but if you don't have a psx its still playable plus a sequel. Anyway while the hardcore 8bit megaman players may be turned off by this i would still recomend getting this gameI remember playing this when I was 12. The story was great and I played it through more times than I can remember.I am very satisfied with the product, it came in a good time and the customer service provided was great.Legends is one of the rare Megaman releases that takes place in a 3D world as opposed to the traditional 2D side scroller most MM fans are familiar with. Both Legends and Legends 2 are among some of the best made story driven 3D adventure games the PSX has in its massive and sometimes daunting library.This was my first action RPG and its the best basically if your an older player like me, 23, may not hold up  graphically today but it is a very fun and expansive game for its time.I already own this game but it's in terrible condition. This is due to me lending it out, which is something I certainly don't do anymore. My favorite Megaman game period, along with 2, I had to get it again. And I have no regrets. Besides, I have 2 copies of the game now: One with only case and disc that have seen their better days and a newer complete copy that reminds me of my original copy in its prime.Megaman Legends
This is my undisputed favorite game of all time. I bought it in 1998 or so because I had played and loved&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Mega-Man-3/dp/B00004SVS5/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Mega Man 3</a>&nbsp;for the&nbsp;<a data-hook="product-link-linked" class="a-link-normal" href="/Nintendo-NES-System-Video-Game-Console/dp/B00004SVYQ/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_rvw_txt?ie=UTF8">Nintendo NES System - Video Game Console</a>&nbsp;when I was young. This game was nothing like that game or any other Megaman games. It was in 3-D and had a story that would blow your mind. I have played through this game around 50 times and no every single part of it by heart.

Graphics- 7/10
The transition to 3-D for Megaman isn't an ugly one, but a decent one. Most of the trees have a 2-D look to them and a lot of characters are blocky. Still, you can tell what everything is easily and there is no slowdown at all. Not to mention, there is hardly any load time to wait through in this game.

Story- 10/10
You are Megaman Volnutt. Roll Casket and her Grandpa, Barrel Casket, have raised you since they found you when you were a child. Following Barrel's footsteps, Megaman and Roll become Diggers. Diggers are people who search through ruins, infested with Reaverbots, to find parts and other things. The main thing a lot of Diggers are looking for are Refractors, which are extremely powerful crystal-like objects that power society. The world is almost entirely ocean so people must use flying machines or boats to get around. Megaman, Roll, and Barrel crash-land their flying ship, The Flutter, on an island called Kattelox. You go on to discover the island's many secrets and fight off the treasure hungry pirates.

Sound- 7/10
The music and sound effects in this game are decent. Nothing will blow your mind away but nothing will annoy you to death. Some tunes even become catchy, like the Apple Market tune.

Gameplay- 10/10
You play as Megaman: exploring ruins, fighting pirates, and just helping people out. There are a lot of side quests you can do. You can join a secret gang, fill a museum with underground arts, help a little girl recover, play in game shows, and so much more. The main storyline has you exploring the Sub-Gate ruins in hopes to learn more about the Island's great treasure, or disaster. While in Sub-Gates you can find all kinds of items to do things with. It's not just in the Sub-Gates either; you can search in other digging sites for parts. You have a primary weapon called a Buster Gun, which can be upgraded with 2 buster parts initially. These buster parts can be bought or found and change different aspects of your Buster Gun's shooting. You have a secondary special weapon that can be equipped and upgraded as well. You will get many different special weapons in the game and one of the most fun parts of the game is upgraded your weapons to perfect ability.

Difficulty- 4/10 (Note- This is how much I like the difficulty)
Since this game is more story based, the difficulty is slight. There is hardly a time where you feel that you are going to die, minus a few bosses. Once you beat the original game, you can go back and play it on a new Hard Mode option. The game is still not that much more difficult but some of the bosses will give you more trouble. Also, to top it off, the game isn't that long. Even the player who likes to talk to every single person and gets lost often can still beat this game in less then 15 hours. That includes the main storyline and all side quests, minus special weapon upgrading. I can now beat the game on Hard Mode in around 5 hours.

Overall- 10/10
Despite the game being easy and not having the best graphics or sound, it's still 5 stars. The game's storyline and gameplay is so good that the rest doesn't even matter. You'll still find yourself going back and playing this game over and over again.If you find Street Fighter Alpha 3 overwhelming, then you should try Street Fighter Alpha 2.  18 characters containing some of the most popular characters from the series: Ryu, Ken, Dan, Chun-Li (has her Kikoken fireball, but not her Spinning Bird Kick), Akuma, Sakura, Zangief, Dhalsim, Sagat, and he-plays-just-like-Guile Charlie.  Each character has his/her own ending.
You don't need to worry about what strength to use when using super combos, because each one takes only one "power" bar.  Great soundtrack, if you played Puzzle Fighter, then some of the music should be familiar to you.  Graphics are great, taunts are outstanding, and game control is excellent.  If you have a chance, grab this classic.This is an excellent game for spending some time on. I have played it before on a demo cd long ago so that's why I decided to buy it. It's about passing missions and destroying planes, bases, ships, etc. It find it very fun. The missions happen in different ambiences and time of the day which makes it more interesting. You can get new planes with different attributes according to what you want. A great title for the ps.There seems to be a curse on Ace Combat akin to that on the Star Trek movies. And by that I mean that the odd numbered members of the series are forgettable, while the even numbered (save perhaps zero, but zero is the absence of value, right?) are stellar. Ace Combat 6. Awesome. Ace Combat 5. Uneven and over too quick. Ace Combat 4. Perfect. Ace Combat 3. Had half the missions removed for the U.S. release. Ace Combat 1 (Air Combat). Stone Age. And Ace Combat 2...

If you're into classic gaming and love the Playstation (and especially if you love air combat games) this is a definite buy. The sheer imagination that was put into this game is wonderful. You have night missions, sea missions, desert missions, high-altitude missions, ravine missions, and oh-so-wonderful city-liberation mission.

I've said it before and I'll say it again, there's more to graphics than just how many polygons you have and how detailed your textures are. Graphics, even low-res graphics, can and should be BEAUTIFUL. And beautiful this game is in all its Playstation polygon glory. The lighting, the jets, the far off cityscapes and the clouds in the sky, it's all just beautiful (to me at least). And better yet, unlike other air combat games of the era, everything moves at a rocketing speed. Even when you get close to the ground (where other games look like you're moving in slow motion), the game keeps a great sensation of speed.

The controls are uniformly tight, utilizing the analog controls to the full. And you can bank and pitch completely upside down, something that many similar arcade-style games of the time don't allow. The game also features a wonderful cockpit view that brings you into the experience even more. There's also voice chatter as you go, some nice arcade style music, and full voice command briefings (nice). Of course you also hear "Bingo!" every time you hit a target and get a comment every time you miss too, but that's just keeping with the arcade feel. The enemy A.I. might not be as good as you can get now, but it's definitely good for when this game came out, and you can still get shot down if you play on hard and don't watch yourself.

In my opinion this game was the first great console air combat game. If you love arcade style air combat games and play Playstation games, you just have to get this game.This game is a classic, I first played it at the arcade around 1996, but the game came out around 94-95. Of course, you won't find beautiful visuals, this is piece of history, one of the first 3D fighting games ever created. It was groundbreaking for it's time, and to this day I still find it addictive.
Each character has a unique fighting style, and these styles keep getting inherited on every sequel, most noticeable Paul, Jack, Yoshimitsu and Law. The Playstation version actually expands the arcade version, adding ending movies and extra characters. There is an arcade version in Tekken 5 as part of the bonus arcade history games, Tekken 2 and 3 are also included.
If you enjoyed games like Rival Schools, Mortal Kombat 4 or Dead or Alive, you definately need to play this.Ever since I was young, I have been in love with the Tekken series. Brings back a lot of good memories. I bought this game to bring back the memories and the fun. Though the graphics aren't as top notch at games these days are, but it's still an entertaining game to play. If you collect either Tekken stuff or video games, this is a must own.Never actually owned the original Tekken but I played it. Since I'm the best Tekken player in the universe, I've decided that I want to own the game that started it all....I have been playing car racing games since their early beginning on PC. I currently have a logitech G25 force feedback wheel to play with.
I have played most of the Colin Mc Rae, Need for speed, Grid and Dirt2 games before. I also tried my hands at more simulation oriented games like GTR, GTR2, GP Legends...
Dirt2 came in as a nice and pleasant surprise. Dirt3 tops it off.

As I am sure many will detail everything about this game, I will limit myself to the most important points for me.

Pros:
- Amazing graphics
- Amazing physics
- Challenging but entertaining races

Cons:
- Gymkhana
- Interface

What went through the conceptors mind about gymkhana? Racing is not easy for most but gymkhana is really a pain in the neck.
I saw the videos of Ken Block on Youtube and indeed he is really impressive. Am I even dreaming of doing the same? No!
Racing require good racing skills to start but Gymkhana requires a perfect control of the vehicles and most of us will never achieve such level. So I find the attemps slightly pointless and extremely frustrating.

Now, what about the interface? Simply put, it does not remotely compare with Dirt2's interface. It is messy, I had to search online to figure out where to find my best times. There are not enough info about the cars, the races, the sponsors... It leaves a lot to desire. A complete miss.

Conclusion:
As far as rallye racing. This game is the best out there today.
If you are one who needs crazy challenges, try the gymkhana and good luck!
In spite of my criticism, I definitely do not regreat this purchase.THIS GAME WAS GREAT. THOUGH IT DOESN'T COMPARE TO ITS ORIGINAL ARCADE MACHINE, THIS HOME VERSION IS NICE ANYWAY. THE FIGHTS ARE ALL FUN, THE GRAPHICS STILL LOOK FANTASTIC EVEN THOUGH THIS GAME IS NEARLY A DECADE OLD NOW, AND THE CHARACTERS ARE ALL GOOD AND THE STORYLINES ARE ALL INTERESTING. TO UNLOCK THE BOSSES [WHICH IS THE MAIN THING], YOU HAVE TO BEAT THEM ALL WITH THEIR ALREADY AVAILABLE COUNTERPARTS. THE FIRST TIME YOU BEAT HEIHACHI [WHICH IS THE MAIN BOSS FOR THIS GAME], YOU GET HIM UNLOCKED. BUT THE REST OF THEM, YOU HAVE TO PLAY AS THE COUNTERPARTS TO GET THEIR BOSSES. EVEN WITH THE PLAYSTATION 2 AND X BOX AND STATE OF THE ART SYSTEMS LIKE THAT ON THE MARKET, MANY OF THE GAMES THEY PUT OUT TODAY CAN'T COMPARE TO CLASSIC GAMES LIKE THIS! THIS IS ONE OF THE ALL-TIME GREATEST FIGHTING GAMES EVER AND I DARE SAY THIS MIGHT BE THE BEST OF THE TEKKEN SERIES. EVEN HAS GREAT MUSIC.Breath of Fire III's old-school graphics capture the feel of old RPGs, and how good they were, playing on NES and Super NES, back in the old days. Now  I still play SNES, playing such good games as Super Godzilla, Breath of  Fire I, and the Final Fantasy series. The storyline goes as follows--Ryu is  a survivor of an ancient race of dragons, the Brood, which nearly destroyed  the world. However, he is a good dragon. He allies himself with Yraall  Region thieves, Rei and fellow dragon Teepo, who at the time doesn't know  he's a dragon. He aligns himself with the young Princess of Wyndia,  Princess Nina, and the daughter of a smart scientist, Momo, a mutated  vegetable named Peco who has a lot of significance at the end of the game,  and a Guardian of Urkan Tapa who's race once fought and defeated the  dragons in a war, Garr. Together they quest to find Ryu's origin and other  members of his race, and to find out if Ryu is evil or not. With beautiful  music, surroundings, and a great storyline, this is one of the best RPGs of  all--with many mini-games abound and a fantastic battle system. Definitely  get this if you're a fan of Capcom RPGs.capcom is the greatest video game company in the universe there true genius's the best of the best capcom rocks all the games that capcom made from the 80s to 2015 are the greatest video games in the universe there true classics the best of the best all the games that capcom made from the 80s to 2015 rocks breath of fire 5 is the greatest video game company in the universe a true classic the best of the best breath of fire 5 rocks,breath of fire 6 is the greatest video game in the universe a true classic the best of the best breath of fire 6 rockshaven't play for long time and love this game as enjoy play. it good play game I guess well alrightLove the game thanks!
This game is great from the look and the level of detail and the combat. Thanksive been wanting this game for forever, the story line, battle modes, and game play are amazing for me. it is almost like pokemon and final fantasy mixed together (as far as the graphics go) just a great game, great music and character designs.This game is one of my all time favorites, I give it a 10/10 in the RPG genre.  It is a turn based RPG, that is fun to play.  I own this game for the PSP and the now the PS1.  This game is a rare find in good condition.  If you find a better RPG than this, besides the final fantasy games of course, let me know!this game is alot of fun you can somewhat customize your characters and tinker with thier stats and magic/skills the game is pretty long for 1 disk game but it also had a couple puzzles that makes you want to throw your remote at the tv lol all in all its all worth the hassle.Breath of Fire III is one of those games that can induce a trance of nostalgia upon thought.  I can say this about few games because most are powered by processors that reflect obsession with graphics and innovation.  Innovation is necessary, and appreciated, but games like BOF3 need never disappear.  It caters to the old-time gamer in all RPG veterens, delivering a simplistic save the world storyline and involving gameplay.  And what gameplay!  It's simplicity and charm will, hopefully, impress those who give it a chance because it is very deserving of credit.  Last, I must mention the fishing system.  It's incredibly addictive, simple, and enjoyable.  Nothing else could more easily describe it.  Throw in about another hundred fish and a wider variety of rods and bait, and you'd have a full game that I would have to own!  It's that good.  For everyone: whether an RPG-newbie or a hardcore veteren, you should give this game a chance.  Fun doesn't begin to describe it.Many may disregard the Breath of Fire series as just another RPG but Capcom has done a beutiful Job with this title.  They pulled out a lot on this case.  Beutiful 2D graphics that only Capcom can do, good music, simple controls make this an excellent purchase.  Chances are you may find this at a good price somewhere so I say go for it."Breath of Fire 3" is a very interesting and well made game.  The plot is pretty good, and the characters are interesting and memorable.  One thing I do miss from the older "Breath of Fire" is the way they transformed into dragons; the process in the current game is excellent (I just prefer the older methods).  My favorite part of the game is that you start off playing a young version of the character, and then later in the game, you get to play a more mature version of the same character.  This game is a lot of fun and suitable for most people who enjoy the genre.Tekken 2 it the huge sequel to the best selling fighter, Tekken, this game includes advanced fighting and secret characters to die for. Not only theat, but it had a plethera of gameshark codes to make the game easier. this game also introduced the 10 hit combo, the automatic win. Namco has done it again and they have done it with flying colors, this game is a must have for the fighting fans.This is my family,s favorite fighting game. From my six year old daughter on up to my 10yr. old son they love this game.  The graphics along with the sounds and moves are excellent also, there is a great character selection to choose from.This is one of the best fighting games of all time! Definitely a timeless classic 1 2 and 3 are by far the best in the series!This was the very 2nd one I played,part 3 as the 1st. Its nice seeing the younger versions of the characters and the events leading up to Tekken 7. Yes,SEVEN IS YET TO ARRIVE as of this review!!! Anyway....Easy mode is still hard by the time you reach the 7th fighter. The music is awesome especially King's. You can set the music to Arranged or Arcade. A great set of moves to learn so hop to it and buy it.what is there to say. this game has everything you want in a fighting game! plenty of characters to choose from and the gameplay is top notch for a ps1 game. definitely one of my favorites!I remember Tekken 2 being one of my first fighting games I have ever played, and one that I kept coming back to. It wasn't just the nostalgia that kept me coming back, but the overall gameplay as well. Almost everything about this game was done right, and there is very little to complain about.

Tekken 2 takes place 2 years after the events of the first Tekken. The plot isn't very well developed and isn't really involving, but everything else more than makes up for it. The graphics (for the time) were amazing and the animations were also nicely done. The roster includes 24 characters who are all unique and feel very well balanced. The game is very accessible and almost anyone can pick up this game and get a pretty decent grasp on it. The controls are simple and intuitive, and I always believed that this control scheme (each button controls a limb-ex. left punch, right punch) is one of the best for fighting games.

For modes, you have your basic arcade mode which you complete to unlock new characters. You also have a vs. mode, a team battle mode (which is very enjoyable), a survival mode, a time attack mode, and a practice mode. All of these modes offer allot of replayability as it is easy to dump countless hours into any of these modes.

The combat system is still excellent to this day. The amount of combos that each character can do is pretty substantial and you will discover new moves without being too overwhelmed. There also aren't really any cheap tactics unlike some of the more recent iterations of tekken (such as excessive juggling).

Overall, this game is one of the best fighting games that I have ever played. With plenty of characters to learn, plenty of modes to choose from, amazing looking backgrounds, and a terriffic combat system, there is no reason to skip this game. If you still have a ps1/ps2, BUY THIS GAME. I recommend this game wholeheartedly, and you won't regret it at all.Thank you.........Wonderful....and Trusting product and seller. Recommend. Word Word word word word word so many words required almost done.......and doneThough this review may be 14 years 2 late,n my opinion TK2 is the best of the PS1 Tekken games. From the cool fmv intro 2 the ending credits TK2 is by far the best looking/sounding 3D fighting game on the ps1 console. TK3 backgrounds,music,fmv cinemas,light source shading,animations/combos just doesn't measure 2 the standards set by this 1996 classic and it was release 2 years later,go figure!The sequel to the very popular Tekken, Tekken 2 takes everything that the original had and expands upon it. More characters, more levels, more moves, Tekken 2 is a classic and should be in the library of any fighting game lover.

The combat in Tekken is one of best ever. There are so many possible combinations, it's almost impossible to remember them all. Each Tekken gets better and better. Another thing I love about this game is the music. It suits the stages, and characters, well.Ever since I was young, I have been in love with the Tekken series. Brings back a lot of good memories. I bought this game to bring back the memories and the fun. Though the graphics aren't as top notch at games these days are, but it's still an entertaining game to play. If you collect either Tekken stuff or video games, this is a must own. This sequal is too good to miss out on. Buy it before it's gone for good.Same goes for Tekken 2: played but never owned. Now that I'm officially the best Tekken player period, the urge to own all of them, even the first 2, just consumed me....Well, I just recently bought this game again, after finding it broken from unkown causes quite a few years ago. People keep on saying, "Tekken 2 has HORRIBLE graphics and the gameplay is horrible!", To those people, did you ever think that this game came out during the 90's and was probably awesome graphics back then? If you're a fan of good fighting games, I reccomend this. It has lots of characters, fair graphics, and is a good collectible for your Tekken collection.THIS GAME WAS A VERY GOOD GAME. BUT THIS AIN'T AS GOOD AS TEKKEN 1. LIKE ITS PREDECESSOR, HAS GREAT GRAPHICS, GREAT LOOKING MOVES, AND GREAT BOSSES TO UNLOCK, WHICH GIVES YOU A REASON TO WANNA WIN THE GAME WITH EVERY CHARACTER. THE MUSIC IS GREAT HERE TOO. THIS IS A DEFINITE GEM. GET THIS AND ITS PREDECESSOR FOR THE ULTIMATE GAMING EXPERIENCE!!From the cool first cutcene to the classic music that plays while picking a character, you know this is special.
Don't just button mash, learn the combos because this is the only game(out of 100)that has made me curs at the TV. If you're a beginner, start of with someone with fast kicks like marchial Law and not Jack 2. BUY THIS because it's an ABSOLUTE CLASSIC.all i can say is that this game is a classic, possibly the best game ever made for the playstation 1.i love ryu i love wolverine, ryu invented the fire ball not goku, goku who? you could suuuuper juuump and throoow fire balls fire balls bring out your second character fire powerFrom all the fighting video games around Street Fighter has always been the mother of all. From it's beginning it has been a game who deserves admiration and if it did good as a 2D game it did way better as 3D.This game gives us the opportunity to enjoy SF even more with a lot new things such as great graphic,combos that will blow your mind,lots of new options and lots of characters to chose from. It brings us a whole new SF with the same stuffs we like. Old characters in their 3D version which is just perfect and a whole new cast all with their uniques techniques. This game has new options never seen before in any other SF game. The arcade,versus,Team,ect,modes are all new and better. This game offers you a great deal of exitement as you spend more time playing it. By far,one of the most revolutionary and why not controversial among fans from all the SF games. Buy it,play it for 2 or 4 hours and I guarantee you this game got nothing to envy other SF games.Ive had Tomb raider since July and this game is off the meters!! When I first played it, I was frustrated with the controls, but once u learn them, this game is the best!!! The worlds are long and puzzling, but its never too hard to finish. The action and suspense make u feel like its a movie. I reccomend this to anybody who likes action or 007 fans like me. You WILL love it, trust me.This is the best game I have yet to play.  It took me six months to finally defeat,figure out and fight my way to the end of this game.  This game was like a very suspenseful movie that I was controlling. Many times in the game I was actually sweating from fear. You don,t know what,s waiting for you around each corner, waiting to jump out at you and scare the crap out of you. Even my family and onlookers were startled or to afraid to play this game because of the  realism captured in enormous worlds and creepy CD sounds.This game realeased in 1997 (I think), was the first in the Klonoa series (which includles a few more games in Japan), and was defenently a "sleeper-masterpeice" for PSone. This game however feels a little bit different than the other games in this series, though I'm not excatly sure why. I think the main reasons it feels so different are: the graphics, the story line, the music, and the character differnces. Graphicaly wise, you can tell it's older, but the graphics have a certain charm to them. The few out-of-engine motion scenes though, are magnificent! However, the graphic style is drasticaly different from it's sequels. The plot is overall, a little more "classic fantasyish" and feels kinda like something you might read in a book (which is probably what they were aiming at since it has a "book theme"). It has a bit of a melancholy feel to it; which makes it feel slightly more intense than it's sequals. Actually, I think it's the best story of any of the Klonoa games. As for the ending, I loved it! Sad and moving without being overly sad. I think it's my favorite vidoe game ending! The BGM is a different style than Lunatea's Veil also, (It's PS2 sequal) less solemn and RPG like, and a little more lively, or something, not really sure what the word is, it fits the game well. What I mean by character differneces is that it has no familiar characters other than Klonoa and Huepow. Klonoa, however, is quite different than in his sequels. Dispite these differences, the gameplay is practicaly clone-copy of the others in the series, esspecial Lunatea's Veil. From what I have heard, many people that played this were dissapointed with the sequel. I think that it was probably because they were used to this style and didn't give it much of a chance (personaly, I was dissapointed with THIS game at first, then started to really like it after I got used to it). Anyway, bottom line is, that if you've played all the other Klonoa games, expect this one to be a little different, but defenently get it, if you enjoyed the others, you'll enjoy this! If you haven't played any of the other games in this great series, it's based on engaging gameplay with simplistic controls. This game is one of the few "2.5D" games in existance. It plays parellel to a 2D game (people still hanging onto their old copies of Sonic the Hedgehog 2 or Mario Bros. should try this). In this game, however, you are in a 3D environment (don't worry, the paths are clearly defined, you won't have any trouble figuring out where you can and can't go). You can interact with the background by throwing things into it, this is esspecially key in some bosses, This is the 2.5D part. There are 12 levels (not counting the final boss)in this game, plus an unlockable time attack level. This game is pretty easy, and if your looking for an extreamly hard, nail biting, challenge, this probably isn't for you. This is more of a fun, relaxing game. However, I love this game, and recommend it to all who own a Playstation!This is the best Tomb Raider along with the 2nd one. Graphics are actually still all right now 20 years later. Buy this on here or on psn, its a wonderful game from a simpler time. Reminds me of my youth when we didn't have video walkthroughs.This is an amazing oringal game that I purely enjoyed playing. The storyline is so original for its time and its graphics are amazing on wide screen tv's. In the game, you are Lara Croft, a tomb raider and have been given another opportunity to explore more for artifacts in Peru by Jacalene Natla, a millionaire investor who holds a dark secret. You soon realize she is not what she claims and you do undercover research and she betrays you. You travel thru the dark cold and abandoned caves of peru, ancient underground Greece, the catacombs of Egypt & Atlantis all to find 3 pieces of the scion for which Natla asked her to get, all while blasting out animals and creatures you wouldn't expect and collect secrets along the way. This is a great game that had a greater sequal. But this is my favorite out of the series. Original playstion graphics, great music and sound affects and great storyline!The box it's in perfect condition and the books are awesome, with great details, just a must have for every Zelda collector.Despite awkward controls that seem to be designed more for a computer than a Game System (and get used to it, because that lasts until the PS2 era-- aka, the sixth game in the series) this has to be one of the funnest games of all time. It gives a challenge on multiple levels & inspires you to keep playing to find out what happens next as things get progressively more dangerous and more bizarre. Was re-made as Tomb Raider: Anniversary, but I'd prefer the original any day.Tomb Raider was one of the first games I completed and it was tough. Really challenging throughout and educational, one of the most intriguing and fun games to pass while shooting at random things and at Dinosaurs and Bears and other animals, really great!If you are a fan of TR you're gonna love to have this one in your collection!! The graphics are better though on the pc version...This game is a winner, and a true classic.

This game redefined the role playing wheel, when it was released on PS1. It was a smash hit, and has since spawned many sequels to the original game.

The graphics are a nice step  forward from earlier RPG platforms including: NES, SNES, Sega, etc.

The controls are challenging, and to someone who doesn't want to take the time getting used to it impossible. However, when you buy an RPG you want a challenge, and Tomb Raider delivers that on all levels. As far as game control goes, it will definitely take some patience to learn the many skills Lara can do. She can do a variety of things like different jumps, flips, crawling, fighting moves, etc. If you have no patience, this game will drive you crazy. It really is a shame that some people tear down this game, when they have no idea what they are talking about. Who wants to play an RPG with no challenge, not me. This game takes time to learn how to master the acrobatic moves, fighting moves, jumps, etc. I like that, and if challenge is what you want, this delivers. Once you learn how the controls operate, you realize it is quite easy to use.

The graphics are really well done, and definitely an improvement over older platforms, too. The characters, and scenery are much sharper, in higher definition for then previous platforms, and more with more colors. One of my favorite characters is the huge T-Rex you must fight. It looks like a T-Rex, too. The graphics are just awesome. I love how the blood flies, when you kill an animal. Previous platforms didn't really do that, and  in such detail.

Another thing that made it better over older platforms is the continued ability to move freely about the landscape unrestricted, but with even more vantage points. You can view yourself from pretty much any angle. Top, bottom, sides, any angle, at any given moment. You can watch yourself from the side, then go to top view, bottom view, etc, etc. It's just awesome the advances over previous RPG platforms.

The music in this game is very well done, and of CD sound quality. The music is crystal clear, and fits the game perfectly. The background music is often very hauntingly eerie. Also, the sound effects are of nice CD sound quality, too.

This game has many, many hours of game play that will keep you busy for awhile. Lots of different scenery in different places of the world. You find yourself in a variety of places, and not just dungeons, and caves, but there is plenty of that, as well.

If getting through the many challenging levels, and trying to stay alive isn't enough for you, there are many, many hidden secrets for you too find, also. Some are easy to find, some are pretty challenging to find.

If you love exploring caves, catacombs, dungeons, and having to constantly fight, then you will love this game. Lots of challenges, puzzles, and lots of ways to die, too. The game requires patience, and if you are a true RPG fan this game is a must have.

Highly recommend, 5 stars.I absolutely love Tomb Raider. It is definitely my favorite game of all time. It has everything you need to make a wonderfully fun game. There is action and adventure, thriller, problem solving, and an entertaining story line. I love the challenge of the problem solving. It isn't a game you can finish in a couple hours, but take a long time to get through all of the different puzzles. You definitely get your moneys worth with play time on this game. It will always keep you thinking. I couldn't ask for a better game.This takes back memories when I first played Tomb Raider.  It's both chalenging and fun.  Its remake is just added stuff and newly improved stages.Amazing value. I cannot believe this set is available for this price. Everything from the packaging to the quality of the paper is stellar.  This set feels like it was put together with care in mind. Also worth noting is the fact that the Ocarina of Time guide can only be found in this set. Only criticism I have is that the cloth maps were not included for  Twilight Princess and Wind Waker. Still, Im very happy with my purchase.I had to go back and play this game after playing (and loving) Tomb Raider Anniversary. Playing Anniversary and then going back to the original really makes you appreciate just how awesome this game was. The level design was just amazing with all the different areas you get to explore. I haven't played the original since it first came out so I didn't realize just how much Crystal Dynamics took from this game. They took a lot. Some of the level designs are almost identical. The biggest difference between the old and the new is the difficulty. Anniversary is way easier. But not because the puzzles or enemies are easier. It's because of the controls. Back in Tomb Raider 1, the controls were pretty terrible. But what do you expect from a game breaking new ground in the world of 3D? So I'll over look it and give it a 5 out of 5.OH YES....this game is what it's all about.  Sure, it looks totally archaic now with its primitive low-polygon 3D (cf. Lara's Madonna-style pyramid breasts) and jerky low frame rate - BUT WHO CARES.  "Tomb Raider" was one of the first fully-realized 3D games, with huge environments and a camera that lets you explore them fully - something next-gen developers still seem to have a problem with sometimes - and, of course, best of all, an action hero that players across the board could instantly connect with.  Yes, Lara Croft - men want her, women want to be her...lol.  Forget about her later misadventures on celluloid and (worst of all) the PS2 platform.  Even on the PS1, all the new innovations in graphics and AI that cropped up in subsequent TR installments couldn't improve upon the originality of gameplay you have here in the debut.  The puzzles, the secrets, the at-times relentless action, this game has it all.

Much like Indiana Jones, we first encounter Lara as she explores some ruins in South America - allegedly the village of Vilcabamba, an actual archeological site in Ecuador, although as it appears in the game it's more of a generic hotch-pot of pre-Columbian art and architecture.  Of course you have the rolling ball traps everywhere, and of course she eventually finds a golden idol - more nods to Indy.  Later she explores Las Vegas versions of Rome and Egypt, slaughtering more endangered species in the process than are even left on the planet (PETA just loved this game) before proceeding to - where else? - Atlantis, which is naturally swarming with freakish and bloodthirsty mutants.  All this because she's in search of an artifact whose magical powers, if in the wrong hands, could destroy the world, or something.

It's easy to punch holes in the ridiculous plot, but that doesn't affect the entertainment value - again just like with Indy, you know it's stupid, but you're more than willing to suspend disbelief just to go along with the wild ride.  Getting through the levels is not always easy; you'll need to sharpen both your combat and puzzle-solving skills.  There's also a lot of replay value owing to the oftentimes diabolically-hidden "secrets," which usually contain caches of weapons and the infamous "medi-paks."

Play this game - it's almost like a cool retro thing to do now - and forget about everything that came after.  They have a new TR in the works now but it's got a lot of bad karma to overcome...so far nothing has matched this original masterpiece.Ok, sounds perveted. It may be weird to have a crush on the sexy, adventurous, and alluring Lara Croft, but many other people do too.
Anyway, this is it. The first "Tomb Raider" game. It has classic written all over it. Despite being dated, and encountering countless predecessors, sequels and dissapointing movies the game manages to have to a strong following and is considered to best game of them all.
It was orginal back then, where archaeologist Lara Croft, a female Indiana Jones, is called upon to use her intelligence, amazing physical skills, and her big guns to solve complexed and ancient puzzles, battle hard enemies and travel the whole world in style. I forget the storyline, since I haven't played this game in ages, but it's good. You should ask my mom, who played and beat every "Tomb Raider" game(Sorry mom). I'm not kidding! She did! The graphics are surprisingly good to look at, as well as the hard puzzles to solve(which made it famous to play) and the fun movie scenes. Check out the dinosaur too in this game. it's a blast!
Anyway, a highly reccomended game. But I liked "Tomb Raider 2" way better then this one.If I could have give 6 stars for this game, I would have.  I played this originally when it first came out in 1996.  Back then, games such as Resident Evil and Tomb Raider were ground-breaking milestones in entertainment known as video games.  I won't talk about Resident Evil here because everyone knows about that.
Tomb Raider was the first game to give players control of a character in a true 3D environment.  Sure, you had games like Doom and Wolfenstien, but they played only on a single plane with your character spinning on an axis.  Tomb Raider allowed you to control Lara, the feminine version of Indiana Jones, an use the environments such as cliffs, roofs, etc. to progress through the levels.  Level design in Tomb Raider is really what the game is centered around.  Beautiful, stunning, breath-taking, eerie, surreal, all describe the level design here.  Nothing short of ingenious.
The game mechanics and control of Lara were never the best, but they were also adequate to get the job done.  Lara spins on a fixed axis when the player turns left and right, and forward makes her run in the direction she is facing.  Turning can sometimes be a chore, especially when the action is turned up a notch.  Luckily, the circle button makes Lara do a somersault tumble, for a quick "about-face".  The shimmying and climbing from ledge to ledge and jumping has always been amazing.  Combine that with sliding down angular rock formations and time jumps and grabs to ledges, and you are bound to fall in love with the action that Eidos developed (NOTE: This kind of mechanics shined most for me in this game as opposed to all the predecessors, including Angel of Darkness for PS2.  This kind of action became less and less as the series went on, save for Last Revelation, maybe).  The swimming sequences and puzzles are also a really wonderful treat as well.
There are plenty of surprises in this game that I don't want to give away, however, I will tell you that some of the levels in the game will stick in your memory for a long, long time after.  For example, "The God Room" of St. Francis' Folly has got to be one of the best and most memorable and beautiful levels of any game that I've played.
So why am I writing this review now, 7 years after the release date?  For a few reasons.  First, being that I can't get the game out of my head for more than a few months.  Every six months I go back to it.  The second reason, is that when I bought a PS2, I knew I would be playing the original Tomb Raider again and wanted that backward capability.  And THIRD and quite possibly the most important (and the reason I titled this review "Dear Eidos") is that Angel of Darkness was the single reason that I sold my PS2 for an X-Box.  At first I enjoyed AOD, but the game has rampant problems.  I've always welcomed a new Tomb Raider game in my life and gave AOD more than one chance.  I loved all the other PS1 Tomb Raider games, including III, which got a lot of harsh and unwarranted criticisms in my mind, but whatever.  I hated AOD and want Eidos to know that.  And FOURTH reason is that I repurchased the new and compact PSOne last week.  I still own my Tomb Raider from back in the day.  Last night I played it and the magic was back like from the first time I played it.  Sure the graphics feel older, but they are by no means bad at all considering that I play games like Halo, Crimson Skies, Prince of Persia, and Rainbow Six 3 on the X-Box.  There will always be a large place in my geeky video-gaming heart for this true classic.
EIDOS: TAKE THE POWER BACK!So, this is where it all began - the original Tomb Raider. In November 1996, Britain was changing. With the phenomenal success of the Spice Girls and the phrase "girl power", there wasn't a better time to bring out an all-female computer game heroine who kicked [rear]! Enter Lara Croft. The game went straight to No. 1 all over the world and shifted more than 10 million copies to become THE biggest selling PlayStation game of all time. Lara soon became a cultural icon, gracing hundreds of magazine covers the world over - and not just computer magazines, mainstream magazines such as Rolling Stone and Time; undoubtedly the biggest magazine names in the world. Four sequels followed in the form of Tomb Raider II, Tomb Raider III, Tomb Raider IV: The Last Revelation and Tomb Raider IV: Chronicles. The five games have sold a combined total of 40 million worldwide and secured Eidos Interactive and more importantly, Lara Croft and Tomb Raider, a place in video gaming history as undoubtedly the greatest, most popular and enjoyable computer games of all time.
The story of Tomb Raider is simple really. Lara Croft is a semi-famous archeologist adventurer and has been hired by a mysterious woman, Natla (last name unknown) to search the globe for an ancient artifact, known as the Scion, that is beleived to have come from the lost city of Atlantis. Lara sets off on her travels to find this artifact but before she can find it, she must search other areas of the world to find clues and hints that will open the way forward to her ultimate prize. Around halfway through the game, while uncovering clues about the artifact in question, Lara also unveils the truth about Natla; a story told through amazing cut-scenes. The storyline is intriguing to say the least and keeps you on the very edge of your seat as you beg to know more, yet never for the game to end.
The game begins with simple, pedestrian levels for newcomers to get to grips with the controls. The enemies are only small in the first few levels; bats, dogs etc. that can be eliminated with a single shot of Lara's Pistols - a weapon that she has with her always that features an unlimited amount of ammo. The game has a massive 16 levels that will keep you playing for months - it took me 10 months to complete. In fact, I finished the week Tomb Raider II came out so once I'd finished with the first, I spent the next 10 months playing the second one! This has been a regular oocurance and has resulted in me playing all five Tomb Raider games for around 6 years without a break! I remember the days when I bought this game...I was only 10 and it scared me to death! The enemies may not look very real, but remember that controlling Lara is! You control her every move so her life is in your hands! At the time the game was released, the graphics were unbelievable and the scenery breathtaking. The former is not so much now, but the latter still stands. Graphics in computer games have come a very long way since 1996, but half an hours' play on Tomb Raider with Ms Croft, and its superior excellence shines through. The final levels are set in and around Atlantis, and are classic moments in video gaming history. From the rocky cliffs of Asia, to the hot muggy forests of South America and the haunting and eerie lost island of Atlantis, there's something here for everyone. Buy it now!
OVERALL GRADE: 10/10
All in all, Tomb Raider is the ultimate PlayStation game. Everything about this game is so enchanting and memorable. The atmosphere, the sounds the animals make, the noises Lara makes when falling off a rock, the music that cues to tell you something exciting is about to happen - everything! This is a true classic in video gaming history that deserves all the critical praise it recieved 6 years ago. If you haven't got Tomb Raider in your PlayStation games collection, it is not complete. Only when you purchase all 5 Tomb Raider games will your collection be complete. With the soon-to-be released Lara Croft Timb Raider VI: The Angel Of Darkness, all six Tomb Raider will keep me playing for decades, literally. I will still be playing Tomb Raider when I'm 60 years old, and I'm sure I'll not be the only one...It's great to play if you have nothing to do well anyaway. The level's are so cool it's get's better each time you go to a new level. Each level have something you must do before you go on. There are alot of little places that you can fine little small heath pack's get those you will need it because there is always someone trying to stop you and kill you O, if you fine anything useful get that too.
Sometimes the informate is right there in your face you just got to look that's all.
This was my only game that I own for my playstation. That the time I did't know if I sould play it or leave it alone will I play it and you know what, I like it for once a woman is doing the thing and I said it's about time, do you know what I mean??
Well go have fun I did. Take your time and do it right I did and I got good at.Like I've said before, Tomb Raider will always stand as one of the most influential games of all time. Back in 1996, the only competition in this genre was Mario 64. Nowadays, every other game is a 3d adventure "in the vain of Tomb Raider".
The game is very solid. Well placed and thought provoking puzzles. Some nice action, great graphics which still hold up today, and lots of fun. The only complaint is the lack of a decent ending, and that I have to shoot a fellow human at least 60 times in order to kill him. How untrealistic is that?
While TR 2 is the best in the series, this one will be the most remembered.
Story: 6/10
Graphics: 8/10
Sound: 7/10
Fun: 8/10Fun, classic PS1. I like to collect old games so it was a nice surprise to me that it was a collectors edition. It has some playable demos and some watchable demos at the beginning.Got the game. After I came home from work, it was on the kitchen table. My brother probably got to the mailbox first. I hope it is good. My little nephew wanted to play it with me.I played this game when i was a kid and forgot all about it. Then remembered it, ordered it, and have been having fun playing it.Alrighty, let me just start off by saying don't let people who play "Final Fantsay 7" sway your judgement about this.  While "Final Fantsay 7" is an amazing game, it varies VERY HEAVILY from "Fighting Force", so what some people like (fun fighting games)and others love (RPG gamers) we are at war with the worlds.  It's better to agree to disagree here.  Okay, let us begin with the review.  I love this game.  From the very beginning where you can choose your favorite character (Mace Daniels is my personal favorite), to the last moment when you deliver a crushing blow to your enemy.  It is ingenius.  I love how you can pick up weapons like guns and bats and that you can deliver really "snazzy" throws/blocks.  Like people have said, it is like a "Streets of Rage" for the now.  Let me break it down overall for you:

  Graphics- Compared to now, it is not up to bar.  Compare it to when it frist came out, bar none!  5/5, although the animation can sometime slow down.

  Sound- Ain't nothing more prettier than hearing your enemies bone crunch!  5/5

  Control- Obviously this is the black-sheep of the family.  The controls are clunky and choppy, and sometimes they interfere with the great gaming experience.  Thank God for infinite health codes!  3/5 (ouch)

  Overall- Aside from the controls being what they are, the game is a smooth ride of fun fighting and brainless beat-'em-up.  I feel this game is totally undercredited, and that we need to change that.  ONLY YOU CAN PREVENT FOREST FIRES!This game is very fun. I have only played a demo that my cousin has but I'm dying to pick up a copy. The demo is short and we like to come up with different themes to it like we're going to a party at the building at the end of the demo. This game is kind of funny. Some of the enemies are pure fools. I like to run around the van with them chasing. Then I turn around and and knock the crud out of them. I like the guns and sticks that you can pick up and when you run out of ammo you can throw your gun at the enemies. That's pretty funny too. The characters have awesome moves. I love fighting games and this is one of my favorites. If you like fighting games and games that are just plain fun, buy this game.great set of guides. no shipping damage. all books are in great shape , no misprints or upside-down pages.well worth the investment.This is a pretty fun game. if you like hardcore killing games then this is for you. this game rocksTomb Raider 2 is by far the best sequel game out right now. Lara kicks way more...in this one then in the first. Some of the reasons why are listed here:
Excellent 3D levels such as -
1. The Great Wall
2. Venice
3. Bartolli's Hideout
4. Opera House
5. Offshore Rig
6. Diving Area
7. 40 Fathoms
8. Wreck Of The Mario Doria
9. Living Quarters
10. The Deck
11. Tibetan Foothills
12. Barkhang Monestary
13. Catacombs Of The Talion
14. Ice Palace
15. Temple Of Xian
16. Floating Islands
17. Dragon's Lair
Epilouge: Home Sweet Home
Kick...weapons like -
Pistols
Uzis
Magnums
Shotgun
Grenade Launcher
M16 Machine Gun
Harpoon Gun
Awesome new enemy's like -
T-Rex's
Raptors
Guardian Of The Talion
and A Dragon
Tomb Raider 2 is an awesome game, but, my favorite in the series has to be Tomb Raider 3!
Below i have included a list (in order) of my favorite Tomb Raider games:
1. Tomb Raider 3
2. Tomb Raider 4: Last Revelations
3. Tomb Raider 2
4. Tomb Raider 5: Chronicles
5. Tomb Raider...From the Great Wall of China to the canals of Venice, Tomb Raider II is the rare case in which a sequel is better than an original. In fact, I find this game to be my favorite of the series. In it the legendary Lara Croft sets out to find the Dagger of Xion. In her quest she navigates the globe, and even takes a couple of trips to strange and magical new worlds.
Tomb Raider II offers significant improvements over the original, and its game play exceeds the other games that follow in the series. The game has drastically overhauled weapons and artificial intelligence. Though the puzzles are not as hard as later versions, they still are quite difficult. Lara has new moves, many new weapons, and more dangerous foes. What more could a Tomb Raider fan - or even the casual gamer - ask for?
I highly recommend this game, whether you are an avid Tomb Raider fan or somebody new to the series. I don't believe you will be disappointed - in fact, you will probably find many hours of action filled entertainment. And if you do enjoy it, I strongly recommend other games in this series.Tomb Raider II is the best of the series, followed by the original. After this, the series went downhill. The first level is actually quite challenging! They don't mess around they throw you right into the fire. But it here or on psn, either way get this gameI absolutely love this game, this game is really hard, but fun once you get the hang of it, long, I've played more than 20 hours, and I still haven't beat it,An astounding commercial success in 1997 and still holds up well today, Tomb Raider 2 was a step in the right direction.  It had vast improvements over the first.  From using flares to light up rooms, to driving some vehicles it was a lot of fun.  Also Lara's moves are improved.  The back flip and doing a 180 in the air combo was one of the best.
The game was a lot more challenging than the original.  The first one you only fought a total of 4 different characters with guns.  In this one you fight multiple enemies with guns.  Also the gauntlet you run on the first stage is probably more challenging than anything in the original.  I played this game so much I can still play it through beginning to end, and get every secret without any hints.  One of my top favorite five video games of all time.  And a true high water mark for Play Station 1 and maybe video games in general.They took what was great about the first and somehow made it twice as good. These games are still great for people looking for a challenge, but I would advise first-time players to play the series in order, as each game builds up from the hardest point of the previous one by making difficult-to-learn skills from the previous one rudimentary things you NEED to know in order to play the next, as well as adding a bunch of new tricks and surprises. But, even though there isn't as much actual "Tomb Raiding" in this one, it is definitely a step up from the previous version. Also includes an awesome bonus level at the end where Lara's house is raided by a Mafia strike team. Although, does not include the other bonus levels from the extended version of the game. (The extended version has two more levels, but it's only for the PC)Theses are real video games, the ones you work on for weeks before you finally reach that last awesome cutscene concluding the game. You'll never feel such joy until you play this.
It's definitely different than the first. In the first there were only an handful of human enemies and this one is loaded with them. Making you more carful to conserve ammo and medi packs.
The weapons human enemies carry vary from regular old pistols to flame throwers. There are also Doberman's, sharks, eels, tigers, vultures, rats and spiders. Plus some swordsmen in the Floating Islands, you'll see...
You earn more weapons as you progress including pistols, harpoon gun, uzis, shotgun and M16. You can drive motorboats, ski mobiles.

there are other things to look out for besides enemies like suspicious pressure pads, doors that you are approaching (which sometimes open and an bat wielding goon comes out) Or simply break away floor boards. If there is one hint I can give you is that *Always* draw your pistols when your going down an new hallway. You'll be glad you did.
This game is still full of an lot of things, and quite frankly it still freaks me out to play. It's sheer awesomness and I recommend.This game is amazing!!! The level design and all the awesome puzzles make this game the best TR game I've ever played!! This one is perfect to start if you are too young and never had a chance to play the Tomb Raider classics from PS1. After playing this one, play #5, then #1,  then #4. Tomb raider...THE BEST SERIES EVER!! (ESPECIALLY THE CLASSICS ONES FROM 1996 - 2000)This is one of those classic games that everyone who was a fan of Playstation 1 must own, aside from the 1st Tomb Raider of course. Got it used, but it works great.I recently backtracked and played all of the earlier Tomb Raider games. (avoid Angel of Darkness.  Horrible game)  TR2 is about as fun as they come. Graphics are outdated of course, but there is so much to do and to much fun to be had.  The game is long, keeps your interest, has plenty of cool weapons, and a good story.  I'd love to see this game redone with today's technology.  "10 out of 10".

If you're a TR fan and haven't played this, I'd advise that you do.I recently started re-playing this game to find that it is actually quite fun. I remember first playing this game when i was a little kid at my friends house but never gave it any attention. I just thought of it to be boring and hard. But since i remembered it, i sadly asked him if i could borrow it and he said sure, keep it. So i did. Anyways, when i started it up, i remembered everything about the first mission, very hard especially without anymore ps1 memory cards. When i finally beat the first mission. "The Wall" It sadly took me hours, because after those tumbling rocks after you, you got ran over easy and died. Every time you die you have to restart the whole mission, so this is what took me the most time. Soon i got on to the second mission, i got pretty far but then the disc "old and scratched up" quit on me. It kept freezing. I have had this problem many times before on the first mission, so i had to restart it back up again. After that i pretty much quit. This is why i keep all of my games in their cases. So they will work about 10 years later. Sorry for such a bad review but later i looked up online and watched the whole thing, well the missions in speedy time. And saw how good the game layouts and graphics were. I really enjoyed this game, well the first couple missions of it. So maybe i will buy a ps1 memory card and start to savin' soon.this is a good game here and i recommend it to anyone who likes adventure type games. 10 out of 10this game lacked the ability to live up to name "Tomb Raider" its more of a "City Raider" half the levels deal with city-time scenery. and 80% of the enemies are humans. more like a 007 than a Tomb Raider - but the game play is fun in the cities (Venice) so i cant complain too much - just wasn't feelin the whole China scene. I liked to level skip those. and the twist at the end was a lil boost - so all in all ill give it 5stars - but it lacked challenge for me - i beat it in a week. just run around and jump for the most part.The first Tomb Raider was a classic in terms of its 3D gameplay, sense of exploration through massive levels, and a unique main character.  The 2nd installment in the TR series is not much different.  The levels are still HUGE, and exploration is still the name of the game.  But this time around, the environments and enemies are more varied, there are more action-based enemy sequences than the first, and the difficulty level has been approriately increased.  In terms of the level of challenge, I feel that this is the best in the series.  The later Tomb Raider series felt frustrating and downright cheap at times.  This one is definitely not a cakewalk, but is very possible without a strategy guide.  You don't feel as though you have to play for half an hour just to get into the next room.  Progress is slow, but steady, and you don't ever need 6 or 7 different items to move on.  Progress is more based on actually getting where you want to go rather than finding the right items or hitting the right combination of switches.  Some of the level designs are incredible, such as the Venice-based levels, the Opera House, the beastly Barkhang Monestary and the massive Temple Of Xian.  This is the key strength of the first two TR installments, and why the more recent ones have been less inspiring.  Resourcefulness and attention to the environment is extremely key, as medipacks are in light supply in this game.  Also, every level has 3 secrets in the form of dragons.  You do not receive the bonus items unless you find all 3 dragons in the level, making exploration even more vital in building your inventory.  Finding at least 2 of the dragons in every level should be quite easy, but some levels have one especially well-hidden dragon.  The gold dragons in the first two levels are remarkably difficult, but the reward of finding them (especially the first one) is worth it.  If you didn't like the first Tomb Raider, this game won't change your mind.  If you were blown away by the first installment (or even the 3rd, 4th or 5th) then this game is a real treat.Tomb Raider 2 is my absolute favourite PlayStation game of all-time! I bought the game in December 1997, around the same time I got my PlayStation. But I never really liked Tomb Raider 2 and only managed to get halfway through the first level, before forgetting about it for a while. Four years later, in the summer of 2001, I dug it out again and decided to give it a go with the help of a strategy guide. What a shock I got!

After the phenomenal, worldwide success of the original Tomb Raider in November 1996, the Eidos Interactive guys put together the sequel, which, in a rare case, surpasses the original with flying colours. To save the game in the first, you had to find a crystal before continuing, wheras in Tomb Raider 2 you have the ability to save the game whenever you feel like. This comes as a great help, especially before taking off into a running jump over deep caverns and steep slopes. Lara also has much greater weaponary comapred to the last game. The first game featured Pistols, Shotgun and Uzis - that was about it. But with this game, you get weapons such as the Grenade Launcher and an M-16 Assault Rifle. While Tomb Raider 1 focused more on enemies in animal form, Tomb Raider 2 has a more worldly feel because the foes are mostly human. But the most notable change on Tomb Raider 2 is the welcome addition of vehicles. Tomb Raider featured none what so ever, but Tomb Raider 2 has a wide variety from the enjoyable speedboat in Venice and the snowmobile in Tibetian Foothills. Lara also took advantage of a make-over. The graphics where background scenery is concerned is still the same as the first game, but Lara herself has changed a lot; her hair is no longer tied in a bun, but flows freely down her back in a pony tail. The reason this wasn't featured in the first game is because the technology wasn't good enough for her hair to be in a pony tail - they couldn't get it to move in motion with her body (rather silly when you think about it now). Lara also possesses the ability to climb certain surfaces. The improved engine also served better lighting facilities, which allowed Ms Croft the ability to wield flares whenever she finds herself in dark areas. When it comes to the levels, the highlights are Venice, Offshore Rig, Tibetian Foothills (short but sweet - involves driving to one end of a road over pits to find a key, before driving all the way back to open a door that allows you to exit and begin the next level), Barkhang Monastery (HINT: Whatever you do, DON'T shoot the monks, they are here to help! They will dispatch any henchmen who try to kill you so you don't have to kill them! Accidently shoot one, and you'll have hundreds of monks trying to kill you!) and Temple of Xian.

OVERALL GRADE: 10/10

Tomb Raider 2 is, in my opinion, the greatest PlayStation game there has ever been. Yes, the graphics are laughable now because they have come so far since - especially on the PlayStation 2 and X-Box, but it all boils down to how enjoyable the game is. And in that category, it is still the most enjoyable and exciting game ever. Hundreds of titles try to replicate the suspense and adventure that is seen in the Tomb Raider games and fail miserably. Buy this now from Amazon - it'd be a shame not to and to ignore it would be missing out on one of the most classic video games of all time...This game is great to get into and back again never mind. So the level's are great you get to go Tibet, China, Venice and a sunken, ship. The background is not so good but it's ok. And you get small heath and large heath packs. These heath packs will be somewhere in the game keep a good eye out for them.
Arm yourself with:
automatic pistols, harpoon gun, rocket launcher, M16 rifle, Uzis, shotguns, flares and more!
Kill them or be kill by:
monks, yetis, great white sharks, killer eels, dobermans and more. BE CAREFUL PLEASE!!
Your quest is for THE DAGGER OF XIAN.It's hidden somewhere out there I know do you?
And the good news is lara is BACK!I thought id reviewed already, but here goes.  Not your typical ninja game, as most are stealth, this one is more the action side of things, tons of weapons, some special powers, projectiles, and level kind of puzzles. Think ol school brawlers (final fight) meets 3D as a ninja. Cool art to be seen but not cool enough to forget it takes awhile to load as you look at it (load screen).  Fast paced and fun, easy controls and cool lvl design. One other thing is graphics, moderate maybe for ps1, but just bad by todays standards when some ps1's still hold up better.  But that is overlookable as it doesn't hinder gameplay, and is so much fun to play, your just a bad azz ninja. In short bad grfx, long loads, but still so worth being this ninja.I used to love this because the graphics were great with the best cenery seen in a Ninja game on the PLAYSTATION. The problem is you collect power ups for your shurikuns(throwing stars)that make them pretier and powerfuler, when you die you have to look for more treasure chests as you progress through the game.
I've recently bought NINJA GAIDAN for XBOX and that game reminded me of this with the great cenery and graphics.Street Fighter is perhaps the definitive fighting game series. Should you feel it necessary to buy absolutely every individual cartridge/disc of the six games contained on the two SF Collections, then do so and spend a ton of cash. They are all excellent titles, but the two collections of a game that defined the fighting genre are perfect. Street Fighter Collection, the original that is in the spotlight, is actually the more up-to-date one. While it does not contain the original Street Fighter II, it does contain 3 classic Street Fighter games. First is Super Street Fighter II: The New Challengers, released on SNES and Genesis in 1994. It was mindbendingly good the first time I played it. It had a solid 16 fighters. All 8 from Street Fighter II, the bosses, plus 4 new characters never heard of before: Cammy, Dee Jay, Fei Long, and T. Hawk. You might think, "Oh wow, a new edition with new fighters. Never seen THAT before." Well, you're wrong. Super Street Fighter II did contain 4 new arenas (respectively the ones for the new fighters). It also had newly mixed music, newly animated profile shots, and newly animated backgrounds. Basically, it was a perfect upgrade. Super Street Fighter II Turbo is also included. It may seem like Super Street Fighter II with the speed like Street Fighter II Turbo, but it added something. Each character had one SUPER MOVE. From Ryu and Ken's Shinkuu Hadoken to Chun Li's Kikousho, they really gave a great new edge to the series. Akuma is even hidden in this upgrade. Also, the definitive of the three Street Fighter Alpha games, Street Fighter Alpha 2, gets upgraded to Street Fighter Alpha 2 Gold Edition. Cammy is added on, and Evil Ryu becomes playable (YAY!). What's strange is that some of the cast gets an additional playability in their SFII:CE animation. So it's definetely worth picking this up...if you don't already have all three of these games for your SNES (Alpha 2 is also on the PS).The one thing people are missing to consider about this game is that, if you notice, the collection is a collection indeed, and a fine one at that, but mostly shows how the Street Fighter series evolved.  If you note that it goes from Super Street Fighter II, to SSFII Turbo, to SF Alpha 2 gold.  Well, my point is that it shows in order how the series evolved to becoming more complex and technical with Super Combos added.  1st it starts with Super II, no supers at all, just classic, then goes to Super II Turbo, where the super combo made it's debut, and every body had only one super, then goes to Alpha 2 Gold, where it really shows what you can do with a super combo, plus more characters, and every body had atleast 2 super combos.
Lets go over it:
1st - classic with no supers lots of characters
2nd - classic with supers making debut same amount of characters
3rd - advance from 2nd with more characters and 2 supers for each
Not only that, but it's a classic game, mostly to me, just an example of the evolution of the series, if you are still looking for what you thought this game would be, get the 2nd one, otherwise, it's a wise decision to go with this one.Use to play this as a kid and when I played it, it brought back all kinds of memories from my childhood. Definitely a game to have if you are or were a fan of wrestling.<div id="video-block-RQ6P1T4NO5ILD" class="a-section a-spacing-small a-spacing-top-mini video-block"></div><input type="hidden" name="" value="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/E1ZmFyi4lRS.mp4" class="video-url"><input type="hidden" name="" value="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/11zL7xqwCaS.png" class="video-slate-img-url">&nbsp;Watch it in higher quality here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHocd4BRRLw

I am giving away a brand new copy of the collector's guides of Phantom Hourglass and Spirit Tracks, enter the giveaway here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GqlS5IU2tMw

Check out the rest of my Zelda collection here: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLWITUa_LHZlKU0VzGaKKJQSDP104WJf0RThe game works great. no problems after several sittings. Fun game and worked great what is not to like. Came in the mail fast.I played this game a lot when I was little. It was always fun and I enjoyed it. The music in the background, the colors, the graphics; its all great. The coolest thing is that this game is one of a kind, and it is really a good one to add to any Nintendo 64 collection. Gameplay is easy and overall a really awesome game!If you like Mario Kart 64, then you will absolutely love this game! Its sort of a rendition of Mario Kart 64, but instead of riding karts, your riding snowboards. Now in my biased opinion, I love snowboarding games, and this one was a classic among my friends and me.

I recently played it again and noticed several pros and cons that made it such a good game. It had hilarious sound effects, great controls, a few varieties of boards to chose from, and solid looking graphics. It is also fun to get power ups and shoot down your friends to get in the lead. What's really cool about this game is the chair lift at the end of the run. To get back to the top of the mountain you have to go up a chairlift, but the chaos that happens to be the first person to ride the chairlift is hilarious. The only thing that turns people off from the game is that there are only four riders to choose from, and they're all little kids. In other games like Mario Kart, there is more characters to chose from, but the character choices are only a minor con. It also has an incredibly babyish look towards it that can be a slight turn off for older kids.  But once you can "read past its cover" the game can be so much fun to play with friends and family. It is almost nothing like the immature style the game gives off.

Overall, I rate this game a solid 4.5 out of 5 because it is fun and exciting, and in my opinion, better than Mario Kart 64.This game is a lot of fun, with a creepy atmosphere that revolves around the disappearance of Agents Mulder and Scully. I've heard some complain that they wish Mulder and Scully were in the game more, but I think you  still see enough of them to keep most fans happy, plus I found the  character of Agent Willmore (whom you play) to be very likeable. The  storyline is very strong, the puzzles make sense, and the full motion video  (FMV) sequences are very good. There are not very many FMV games around  anymore, so if you like your adventure games with video sequences, this is  really a "must have".As a fan of Myst and Riven, I would not put this game in the same  category.  However, it does equally well for it's type.  Myst and Riven  don't have a main character that you are per se, whereas in this game, you  have a name and a face.
The game puts you in the shoes of one agent Craig  Wilmore.  He is put on a case to find the missing X-files staff: Agents Fox  Mulder and Dana Scully.  As an X-files fan, I found this game very  entertaining.  As a gamer it was well within the genre of adventure games.  There were hints, stuff to pick up, things to do etc.  This was well  within the capabilities of non-X filers and should be equally entertaining.
I likened this game to the Gabriel Knight 2: The Beast within and  Phantasmagoria.  Unlike Phantasmagoria, there were no gory scenes (of which  I was thankful). The people were movies of real people and not cartoons.  The dialgue though limited offered enough variability. One important point  would be to save often.  I got killed alot.
The game had enough of a  plot you could figure out what to do next.  That is essential rather than  blindly clicking on everything you could pick up.
All in all a good buy.  When's the next one?Flying the Star Wars ship was super fun and bringing down those Imperial Walkers is super fun!I've always been a fan of the Twisted Metal series, and this third installment doesn't disappoint. Some familiar characters from the other two games reappear here, but there are also some cool new characters. The music rocks and the stages are full of challenging situations. Be ready to get your drive on!So happy I got a childhood game of mine. This is absolutely amazing. I missed it so much, I was 6 when I first got this, along with bomberman, and mario party. N64 is life. Thank you.I've always loved this game so much, granted there's a bug here or there with the audio but that's to be expected with an aged gem.no idea to say about that have same with twisted metal 2-4 and twisted metal small brawl I haven't play for long timethank you for having this game and in its good condition
you have increased my collection of games by oneworks just fine. old school just the way it should be. a huge improvement from twisted metal II.  Still old school graphics but it still is fun to play.I believe that any twisted metal game you purchase will be fun and exiting because, the fundamentals are the same throughout all the games. Seek out enemy, kill and move to the next level, and the cool thing is you are using cars to blow things up and getting to destroy others. Also the levels are locations that we all reconciles, so that adds to the fun. I like twisted metal 3 because they brought more of a 3D look to cheaters, locations, car, weapons and added new cheaters to the story as well as embellish on the story line. Yes the graphics are not all out there however, the game play is the same and for the most part is stood true to the twisted metal franchise that was created in the beginning. If you love twisted meat at all you will love this one. I have played all twisted metal games and for the most part I do like them all. And this one I really do like very much.I remember that this game used to be extremely advanced for it's age, and the graphics on it are still pretty much spot on. Love the game and is now in my game collection.This game is fun to play just for looking at all of the scenery. I enjoy all the brilliant colors and the array of monsters to kill. This is a Quake-type game but is better in everyway except the weapons. Just plain  fun.Let me start by saying this is the best product I've ever purchased. Only $107.89 for 6 amazing great quality guides in a well built chest and a golden bookmark. These are top notch guides, well written, and well put together!
HEADS UP: There's only 50,000 copies being released, and my number according to the certificate is around 49,400. That's how many they've sold in just over a year. If you want this, don't hesitate.
Also, these guides are going for so much seperately! I've seen used copies go for more than this set alone! Imagine in 5 years.... These will be well worth more than you pay right now.How can anyone not like this game? I don't know about you guys but i still like to play this as weel as twisted metal 2, even though i just got an 360, i will still play this wheneverTHANK YOU FOR THIS GAME,MY NEPHEWS KEEP PLAYING THIS GAME, THEY SAY THAT IT IS SO MUCH FUN, THEY KEEP FIGHTING TO SEE WHO IS GOING TO WIN THE GAME. THANK YOU SO MUCHOriginally playing Rogue Leader (Star Wars: Rogue Squadron 2), it's great to get back to the keystone that started the whole franchise. While not allowing for some of the more advanced gameplay from future games, this product is and was fantastic for the age of N64 era gaming. A much needed classic to add to the collection for sure.I picked this up in a pack of two other N64 games for five dollars at a used game store. Now usually, those bundle deals have all of the mediocre N64 games in them that no one wants to buy individually. However, Star Wars: Rogue Squadron is easily one of the best N64 games I've ever played.

Story: The game appears to take place between A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back in the Star Wars universe. You're Luke Skywalker, the original trilogy's protagonist and a fighter pilot for the Rebel Alliance. You'll help people with vital intelligence defect from the Empire, protect Rebel-allied cities, and of course fight the Empire!

Gameplay: Unfortunately, you never get to wield a light saber or anything. That's not what this game is about. It's a space-shooter. You travel to different planets in your X-wing or  one of the other Rebel spaceships and do missions.

Sound: There may be an N64 game with more audio than Rogue Squadron, but I've never played it, if so (and I've played entirely too many of them :P). There's so much voice-acting. There's lengthy descriptions of every ship in the Rebel Fleet, backstories for Rogue Squadron's fighter pilots, and of course in-level communication between the pilots.

Graphics: It's a very nice job by Factor 5, here. Of course it looks dated by now, but in the grand scheme of things, I'd say it's aged pretty gracefully. Make sure you have an expansion pack for your system to get the full effect.

Replay Value: You get medals for doing well enough in every stage. I'm told that if you get medals in every stage, you can unlock secret missions like the Battle of Hoth from Empire Strikes back and the Death Star run. If that's not incentive to beat this game 100%, what is?

It's clearly a classic N64 game, worthy of being mentioned in the same breath as Goldeneye64 and Ocarina of Time. I'd only that having a decent N64 analog helps.. a lot. If your controller's analog is dying due to wear and tear, you'll have a hard time towards the end of the game.star wars rogue squadron is hands down the best n64 game ever made get this game even if you're not a star wars fan you won't regret itThis has to be one of the best Star Wars games ever made. It's on par with Jedi Knight/Dark Forces 2 and Knights of the Old Republic. It's one of the first games to nail the dog fights from the 1st Star Wars films. The controls are great and it's easy to get used to. It shows off planets that are both new and familer from the films like Hoth. If your a Star Wars nut like me, get it!!!I was feeling nostalgic last week so I started playing Unreal again.  Probably for my third time through at this point!  While Unreal doesn't have as much replay value as a game like Half Life it certainly does have its moments!  Unreal was one of those really impressive FPS games for it's time.  It boasted great graphics and intense game play.  Of course by 2008's standards these graphics merely look silly!  But if you were picking this up in '98 like I was, you were pretty impressed.

I figure I'll throw in some points about playing this on a more current system, since I experienced some issues here and there.  Being a game made for Windows 98 it doesn't translate perfectly over to an XP 32 bit system.  I have no idea what this would do on Vista's 64 bit architecture.  Basically when re-installing it I got a strange error with the option to "ignore".  You can definitely get away with doing that and then it will install fine.  Strangely every time you reinsert the disc to play some more you have to cancel out of the install process and that "ignore" message comes up as well.  I'm not sure if this is just my system, but I recommend saving quite frequently, at least every time you hit a "load" screen.  For some reason the game will randomly crash after a little while and it exits out completely for you.  This can be frustrating if you've been playing for a while, because it doesn't auto save between load screens.  Otherwise it played very smoothly on the newer system.  You can also get the Unreal Anthology which has been updated to handle Windows XP.  Oh and this was on a Pentium 4, 3.0 ghz system.

That being said, I'll move onto the actual review for anyone thinking about delving into this great game for their first time.  The first thing you notice is that you have almost no health.  You begin to discover why as you start wandering around a crashed space ship and it appears you were some kind of prisoner.  Naturally the first things you need to do are finding some health and then find some way out of the ship.  The ship is kind of a boring part of the level, but it leads you a bit into the story line because you clearly crash landed on an alien planet.  When you finally get out of the ship the first thing you'll notice is how amazing and stunning the world is that has been created for you.  Outside it's very bright and vibrant in spots.  This felt a little different compared to games like Quake, Half Life, Doom, because a lot of those games are very dark and have a major dungeon crawl atmosphere to them.  Unreal has a lot of that usual stuff as well, but it also has a lot of time spent outside where you get to see amazing scenery.  One thing the developers did right was making you feel like the in game world was huge!  This was really impressive and fun when you first got into it.

As you explore and interact with the world you learn more about what's going on with this planet called Na Pali.  Apparently the native people are called the Nali and they've been enslaved by an alien race called the Skaarj.  The Nali are extreme pacifists and I can't help but think their designers wanted them to be Buddhists for the most part.  The Skaarj on the other hand are the main enemy of the game, though not the only enemy creatures you'll face.  They are a warrior race that pretty much takes over wherever it sees fit.  You'll notice that the Skaarj design is clearly influenced by Predator.  They have a humanoid lizard design and have a mouth design that looks just like that of a Predator.  To brandish even MORE similarities they also have energy weapons and steel double claws attached to their arms.  As you can see this isn't very original.  Another part that is kind of unoriginal/strange is the Nali castles that you come across.  They are clearly living in what we would term a medieval level society versus the Skaarj who have high grade technology.  Strangely you come across large castles that look like they're straight out of thirteenth century England.  I know... strange for a race of pacifists.  Despite all this, those parts are some of the most fun to play through.  I loved going into the castles and running around!

Another aspect that made Unreal very special, when compared to other FPS games, was the sheer amount of atmosphere that is injected into this game.  It truly does feel like you're on an alien world.  The sounds, the textures, were all there perfectly bringing you into this world, almost so much that you didn't want to leave!  You even hear echoes off of cliffs if you're walking through a cavern, it's like they tried to get as many little details in order to immerse the user.  For it's time the Unreal graphics engine was also very impressive and really took things up a notch in the gaming world.  They also programmed enemies to react more realistically to the user when confronted.  So when I'm fighting against the Skaarj enemies they will actually make an effort to jump out of the way of my shots.  This was really cool to see and I really only found that in games like Half Life.

The maps you have to navigate through are pretty massive at times.  I really felt like a lot of the level design was also influenced by the great game Marathon.  A lot of times in order to open a door you have to search out a series of levers, or whatever, in order to proceed onto the next section.  This game literally has hours of game play and probably took me in the vicinity of 20 to 30 hours to complete, so you really get your moneys worth.  The downfall to having such large maps is it's kind of easy to get lost sometimes if you're trying to complete certain tasks.  Another detriment to the game was the lighting.  I put this game on maximum brightness levels in order to help me see where I was going.  Sometimes that wasn't even bright enough.  There are sections of this game that are absolutely dark, especially towards the end of the game.  While this creates a very scary atmosphere, I felt it hindered the game play once in a while.  The reason this hurts game play is because the flashlight function is incredibly annoying to deal with.  You have to pick up flashlights or flares in order to see in the pitch black areas.  Now to make it more realistic the flashlights eventually run out of batteries or something, but this was poorly incorporated because they only last a few minutes.  Seriously, the flashlights in real life would NOT die so quickly and then it's up to you to go find another one.  The only reason this hurts the game is because if you no longer have light, you can't enjoy the environment nearly as much.

Aside from a couple flaws this is a pretty awesome game and I had a lot of fun playing it.  In '98 this came out around the same time as Half Life and they were both the must play FPS games that year.  Half Life ultimately won the game of the year slot mainly because of story line.  Unfortunately Unreal's story line is pretty poor in the greater scheme of things.  The user doesn't really feel a greater purpose to their mission and instead you are merely trying to complete levels and puzzles.  Whereas Half Life created a vastly well written world where you were trying to get out of a facility and stop an experiment gone out of control.  Unreal just couldn't compete with something of that caliber and it's not nearly as engrossing on that level.  Beautiful world and really fun to play overall, but not the best of the year.

Overall Rating: 4.5 out of 5The game may be old, but it's still fun as hell. The scenery and graphics are really not that bad at all. Quite a change from "traditional" fps games... which is definitely a good thing.When the day I got unreal and tried it, I loved it so much I started calling up friends and telling them how incredible that
game was, the gameplay is one of best gameplay ever experienced
in a game, you are a prisoner in a prisoner vessel heading
to a prison moon believed to be called(the prison ship):Vortex
Rikers. But when the skaarj detect you and pull you on to the once peaceful planet of NaPali, then all goes wrong! your best friend gets eaten by a skaarj, you barely manage to escape a now turned to a skaarj slaughter prison vessel, you reach outside grounds and say this can't be real, no it's not, it's UNREAL!Unreal takes you through 39 heart beating, breath taking missions, where you fight for life to survive, collecting items
like defenses and weapons, travel through temples, facilitys, castles, bases, mountians, journey through what napali has to offer, and end up and the skaarj mothers ship, confronting the queen skaarj.......unaided and alone! I would indenefinetley recommend this game to first person sci-fi fan shooters!This game is a fantastic classic first person shooter. Good adventure.. By looking at the unreal price on unreal you shouldn't have to consider buying it or not.. Buy it.. thats an amazing price for a great game.I have got to be honest even if it means sacking my reputation. I have never played a game so much before in my life. I only own the N64 still for this game, I have thrown out all others. This game brings such a Movie like experience along with great missions, craft, and imperial action that I have never seen anything to its likeness. You have got to get this game under all circumstances if you are a Star Wars fan.Well, I'm going to have to agree with Darth Vader on the strong part. But as for the force part, I'm nonchalant. Star Wars Rogue Squadron begins somewhere in between Star Wars Episode IV and Episode VI. Let me just say, you'll be visiting place in the Star Wars universe, and doing missions that have no bearings to the movies, which is good with me. The graphics in the game are some of the best you'll ever see on the N64. The music and the atmosophere of the game are very well done. This is, I would say, the best Star Wars Rogue Squadron game ever made! Oh, and by the way, yes I have played Star Wars Rogue Squadron: Rogue Leader. I fully recommend this game! And thats my review! Remember, "Be a customer. Not a consumer! Period"- Jake Smithersthis is one of the best star wars / N64 games they have made i say if you have a N64 get this GAME!!! need i say more?I loved this game when I first played it (I still play it even today) the graphics where awsome, the sound was cool, the levels where all kinds of stratageys and the expansion pack worked great with it. The cheats to fly the falcon, tie fighters, naboo fighter ect all made the game even better. There is even a secret little mini game where you can control a Chicken Walker (AT-ST) and shoot up some droids and buildings in a small space.

The only downfall is there is no way to get unlimited heat seeker rockets, so you have to turn on your unlimited lives cheat and keep commiting suicide to get more of those rockets to win within the selected times to get the gold medal to become a Jedi. And there is no nice video's to watch when you finally clock the game. It just shows a quick shot of the ships flying away and then the credits roll... it would be nice to have had a video type of thing like all through the game.

Apart from that, this game rocked.. my the Shwartz be with you.All the major Zelda games in super cool hardbound guides.  A must have for the Zelda fanatic.When the N64 system first kicked off, one of its first titles was "Star Wars: Shadows of the Empire".  "Shadows..." was a very entertaining version of novel it was based on.  It had challenging, yet rewarding, levels and overall solid gameplay.  However, it had two marks against it.  The first was that graphics had not fully realized the potential of the N64 and resembled SuperNES games on certain boards.  The second is that, except for the sheer enjoyment of the playing the game again, "Shadows..." lacks any real replay value.  The introduction of "Star Wars: Rogue Squadron" (based on a series of very successful novels) to the N64 environment corrected these problems and set a whole new standard for action/adventure games on ANY platform.

"Rogue Squadron" focuses on the missions of the famed Rogue Squadron, thought to be the most dangerous and lethal fighter pilot unit in the entire galaxy.  Led by the legendary Wedge Antilles, the squadron fights 16 regular missions (and 3 bonus missions) ranging from defending the homestead on the deserts of Tatooine to rescuing prisoners from the spice mines of Kessel to battling the terrifying 'World Devastators' on Mon Calamari.  That just barely scratches the surface of the exotic locales where missions take place.  The graphic environment is much more advanced this time around.  No more static matte backgrounds.  Everything is fluid and moves with the player.  The gameplay has also been enhanced.  Greater control is afforded to the joystick button on the control pad when it comes to manipulating the ships.  Overall, it makes for a spectacular gaming experience.

"Rogue Squadron" also adds a new twist that dramatically enhances its replay ability.  It awards medals (bronze, silver, gold) for defeating a level with increasing degrees of efficiency.  Achieving all of a certain kind of medal on all the regular missions also unlocks bonus missions.  This creates a greater challenge and a greater sense of accomplishment once the challenge has been met.

There is only one minor quibble about "Rogue Squadron".  In the game designers' quest to make a very demanding game, they make some of the levels almost too hard to defeat even with the highest level of skill.  The most glaring example of this is the level 'Raid on Sullust'.  Flying as a (supposedly) heavily armored Y-Wing, one is supposed to be able to fly skillfully and defeat the mission.  However, the board is heavily populated with missile turrets that defend each of the 12-15 targets that must be hit.  With skillful flying, it may be possible to knockout 3 or 4 of those targets and corresponding guns and turrets before dying, but on the life, it's likely the next ship could be destroyed in less than 10 seconds.  With only 3 ships per mission, it's impossible to defeat that mission without using the 'unlimited lives' cheat code (which will NOT be revealed here).  However, there's no shame in using that code, and it is necessary if one intends to achieve the silver or gold medals.  So, it's a minor annoyance.

"Rogue Squadron" raised the bar to an exceptionally high level for action/adventure games that other platforms have repeatedly shown a failure to meet.  Nintendo still gets it, though, as it followed this game with the even more successful "Rogue Leader" for GameCube.  "Rogue Squadron" is a must have for any serious gamer's library.If I had to pick one word to describe this game it would be amazing.  "Rogue Squadron" pushes the N64 to it's maximum power graphically, which can be further enhanced by an expansion pack (I strongly recommend going with one it makes the game run smoother).  The gameplay couldn't be more entertaining, I often wonder how my little Nintendo 64 is able to handle all that this game has to offer.  The missions you fly in this game vary from escorting ground troops into combat all the way to launching full foward attacks on monstrous Imperial ships.  The AI is pretty strong depending on the difficulty level, but when it comes to your own wingmen helping you out just forget it.  Environments in this game are incredible for a Nintendo 64 game and I give the designers alot of credit for putting so much work into them.  Can't get you're hands on the new Rogue Squadron "Rogue Leader" for Gamecube? Pick this up to satisfy you're urge, if you do own Rogue Leader or even don't plan on getting it, pick this title up anyways for a hell of a gaming experience.LucasArts has really outdone itself with this great N64 game.  After Shadows of the Empire was released, it quickly became obvious that the best level in the game was the first level, where you are flying a Rebel Airspeeder during the Battle of Hoth.  LA decided to make a whole game using a similar concept, and Rogue Squadron was born.  You play as Luke Skywalker, leader of Rogue Squadron, a group of elite rebel pilots who roam the galaxy, making life difficult for the Empire and its minions.  You play through 16 basic missions, which together form a loose plot chronicling the adventures of Rogue Squadron during the time between the destruction of the first Death Star and The Empire Strikes Back.  The missions range from simple search-and-destroy missions, to escorting supply trains, to freeing rebel soldiers from Imperial prison facilities.  Along the way, you must learn to handle a variety of rebel craft, from the X-Wing to the Airspeeder.  Each craft has its own strengths and weaknesses, plus each craft has a special weapon, which means that you are required to use each craft on certain missions.  After you complete each mission, you may be awarded a bronze, silver, or gold medal based on your performance.  After completing a mission, you can move on to the next one, or else go back and try again to get a better score.  The game gives you a score summary after each mission, so you know right away which areaas you need to improve upon to get the gold.
The look and feel of the game is excellent.  The graphics are superb, and the Expansion Pak boosts them to cinematic levels.  The sound is also excellent for a non-CD game, although the chatter from your squadron mates does get a little repetitive.  The game is contained within a 3D environment, giving the game a flight simulator-like feel.  The controls are pretty easy to get used to, though this DOES take a little practice.  Fortunately, the first couple of missions are pretty easy, so you get a good chance to get familiar with the controls.  The controls are the same for each ship, so you don't have to switch back and forth.
As stated before, the first couple of missions are pretty simple and easy.  But, starting with about the fourth mission, they start to get REALLY tough, with multitudes of TIE fighters, missile turrets, and gun emplacements all doing their best to shoot you down.  Expect to die many times before mastering each mission.  Getting the gold medal on all 16 missions will definitely take a while.
The game has a lot of nice bonus features as well.  As you complete missions and earn higher medals, three bonus missions will appear, plus you will gain access to new ships, including the Millenium Falcon and a captured Imperial TIE Interceptor.  There is also a passcode screen, allowing you to enter codes to unlock all sorts of interesting options, including a fourth bonus level and the Naboo Starfighter.  There is even a code to allow you to fly a Buick sedan against the Empire!  The codes themselves are pretty easy to get.  There are several sites on the Internet that have them.
It's easy to get immersed in the 3D environment of this game.  Many's the time I've found myself leaning over to the left or right as I put my X-Wing through a tight turn.  For those who like flight simulator-type games, I would say that this is the best FS game on the N64.  It's a bit dated now, what with the impending release of Rogue Squadron II for the GameCube, but for those N64 fans out there, this one is a must-have.This game is great for Star Wars fans! There are eleven single missions, but there are three bonus missions too. The first is a race on Tatooine where you fly a T-16 Skyhopper in a race against three of your squadron mates! The second is the Death Star Trench Run which the developers, in my opinion over did, because the trence is HUGE and it has to many turns. The best bonus level is the Battle of Hoth. The graphics and music are superd just like every other Lucasarts and Factor Five 5 game! Their are also secret vehicles. You can pilot the Naboo Starfighter by using a secret code (go to Lucasarts website!) the Millunium Falcon and the TIE Interceptor can be earned when you complete the game by getting all the gold medals. It doesn't take long to beat this game if your good at games like this, but ot does offer a pretty good challenge. Now go join the Rebellion and vaporize those TIE Fighters.Rogue Squadron.  Every Star Wars fan knows the elite starfighter group of pilots.  Now you get the opportunity to experience what it feels like to hop into the cockpit of an X-Wing,Y-Wing,A-Wing, V-Wing, Millenium Falcon, T.I.E. Interceptor, and the Naboo Starfighter.  As you fly through over 15 missions, ranging from Tatooine to Mon Calamari, you'll earn ranks in the squardron<the highest I've gotten is Gold Leader>.  With each mission you complete, you'll earn a medal<bronze, silver or gold>and be promoted.  Do you have what it takes to buy this game, and prove you've got what it takes to be a top fighter pilot?First, the single player is awesome. Then the multiplayer battle gets even better. But then when you add Game Shark it becomes the best game ever. One problem is that it is a bit unrealistic because there are up to 400 shots in a clip/magazine. Otherwise the game is good. Also if you like this game you will want Perfect Dark. If you like this game but wish it was more realistic get Rainbow Six.GoldenEye 007 is one of the best game's for the, Nintendo 64. When, you hear pepole say the game is Great, There not kiddin'.  I've had This game for a while, And I'm still coming back to it. It's an 11/10 Replay value. I'd give GoldenEye 007 more Star's if I could. If, you want a game that you can come back to, Year's later, And a GREAT game for alot of pepole, Then Get GoldenEye 007.This game falls into my categories as one of the best games ever. I have played many, many games in my day and haven't seen one quite like this.  Great controls, exciting gameplay, secrets, many weapons, what more could  you ask for?A must have for all Zelda & Link fans. Neat, easy to use & read, colorful, rich in text & content.I ordered this for my fiance for Christmas, I'll just say that he's been up all night playing it and was almost late for work.Game works as described. The condition is also in good condition. I am very pleased.I love the Nintendo 64! I still play some games occasionally and this one was always a fun one. It will frustrate you though!Came fast and was awsome love this game one of my favorites for this system and one of the best snowboarding gamesI'm 23 now, got the game when it first came out when I was around 12. Still the bet snowboarding game of all time. So much fun that I still get the n64 out here and there simply to play this game. Has a time attack mode, trick mode, racing series, and a mixture of them all. Just a great classic that rates up their with 007 Goldeneye for classic N64 games that could last forever for those every now and then gamers like myself. Great game...that's highly reccomended.Once you get the hang of the controls, this game is awesome... it's challenging and entertaining, and everyone should have one.
This game has amazing graphics-- you can even see the snow spray off the board when you make the slightest turn. Plus, the camera controls are flawless. The sound track is pretty good, too- you can hear the snowboard scraping and the snowboarders sometimes talk, and the techo tracks that accompany the races are pretty cool too.
My only complaint is that there aren't enough courses. After I unlocked the 6 courses and beat the "Black Diamond" level, there wasn't much else to do. But even after you've unlocked all the courses, it's still fun to play against your friends in the 2 Person VS mode, or doing tricks in the half pipe.
I think that anyone who has a N64 should add this game to their collection, without a doubt... it's a solid game, and you won't regret it.The game in many ways is like tony hawk.  In fact, the only differnt thing this snowboarding.  The graphic and gameplay are good.  With 5 differnt boarders to use and alot of tracks, the game is worth the money.Great Order. It has the guides that I need. Great Price, Gets down to every little detail in the game.Without any doubt, 1080 Snowboarding is probably the best snowboarding game available.
The difficulty of the controls are a little more difficult than other snowboarding games and may take a little bit more time to master, but it's well worth it. Landing correctly is also a little harder to do than normal.
The mode and track selection is very nice, offering a nice variety of tracks and available modes. The tracks offer beautiful scenery, sometimes very big jumps, jumping over cars, and a lot more.
The tricks and the stunts selection that you can perform is very reasonable. Although you can't go beyond 1080 degree turns, there are other tricks that you might not find in any other snowboarding game.
1080 also includes a Training mode, which includes two different sections, the halfpipe and a straight run with moguls. When you begin, you can turn into the left gate for the halfpipe to practice your tricks, or you can head into the right gate for a straight downhill run with moguls scattered all over. When you finish, you start back up at the main gate and you keep going until you decide to quit.
1080 also has a few secret riders and boards within the game.
Overall, 1080 is probably the best snowboarding game around, without any doubt. Would be definitely worth buying.I'll preface this by saying yes I have played through FFVII on the playstation when it first came out. I've probably played through it at least a dozen times as I just enjoy the story, how it unfolds, the characters you meet and the events that transpire that intertwines their stories together.

Prior to this game, I was mostly into sports/FPS type games. An RPG (heck I didn't even know what that meant at the time) game was not even remotely on my list of games that were coming out that I wanted. A friend of mine where I was working at showed me a gamer mag that had a full rundown of this game. Indeed it seemed very impressive and the more he talked about it, the more I got interested in it.

Then came release day. I still wasn't sold on it but after leaving work I figured... what the hell. Drove 45 minutes north to the nearest mall where a buddy mine worked at EBGames. Soon as I entered he was like "Did you preorder this!!". I told him no and that I wasn't really interested in RPG's as they always sound boring and I'd lose interest quick and waste my money. He showed me a quick demo and I admit, it got me thinking as to "I wonder what happens after this...". I finally said sure. He hooked me up with the strategy guide, free tshirt and the 3 disc game... 3 DISCS!! When I cracked open the case and saw 3 discs... I knew this would be an epic, legendary tale. I just didn't know how epic.

I won't go much into the characters as they have been around a long time and most know who/what they are. But the story... wow. I could not have been more hooked. At first it started off a little slow, mostly to get you introduced to the characters and get some backstory going. After the 2nd mako reactor explosion and you get knocked into slums and fall through the church and meet Aeris... it all changes. The direction, tone and emotion starts running higher. Battles get more intense. You really get the feel that something big, much bigger than even all these characters is building up. It all seems to point to Shinra, but even as you infiltrate it, something is even more disturbing. JENOVA. Soon as I saw that short cutscene with Cloud peeking inside its stasis chamber.. my jaw dropped. I wanted to know what it is, where it came from, what they are using it for etc etc etc. But thats what set this game apart. The more answers you get, the more questions were raised than before.

The world is huge, lots of explorable areas with side quests and storylines. I spent alot of time raising the Chocobos and racing them to get the Gold Choco so I can access the caves that contained important and powerful items and materia.

Materia System: One of the best magic systems I have encountered to date. While you won't use all the materia you buy/find. Its the reward of seeing that glowing green/blue/red/yellow/purple stone that makes you fight to get it and see what it is. Summons are excellent with great animation for the time it was made. Knights of the Round was very long to summon, but the damage and wait is well worth it.

Characters: Some of the most diverse ever seen and very deep with different backgrounds. I think the first time I really got a sense of how immense this story was getting was when I first went into Shinra Mansion with all the creepy creatures you fight and head into the basement where all the Shinra research was stored regarding JENOVA, Sephiroth and the experiments. The characters sucked you in with their drive and emotion to the situations. Making you want to keep going and see whats around the next corner.

In conclusion, for us long-timers here this game never gets old. For the newcomers, get ready to experience something extraordinary. To quote the back of the Playstation case.. "What erupts goes beyond imagintion".This Final Fantasy 7 is one of the most influenced games of all time. The fan bases for this one game blows out all FF fan base out of the water. Never has any other FF game seen such an influenced with multiple related games/story characters found in different games. Multiple Movies. Toys, cards, etc based on this game.  Why was that all necessary for this one game?

It's just that DAMN AWESOME! This game has everything! Story, characters, battle system, music, humor and more! If it didn't why else did this game influenced so many other things that followed it after? Because it was just damn awesome!

You can play this game over and over before getting tried of it, but you will keep it in your hearts forever. The amazing game play, the amazing characters, and amazing graphics. (Back in those days.)

They just can't make anything that even comes close to what they did back then. I wish they did, but they can't! It was just too well done! lolWhen my cousin first got this on his birthday, I was thinking " this is just gonna be like all the other snowboarding games I've played".  Man was I wrong!  With 8 levels of exciting, heart stopping jump, twists and turns, this is one game you don't wanna miss.  It has all the best modes, Match Race<this is where you earn hidden levels against the computer>, 2 Player, Trick Attack, Time Attack,and Contest, this is one game that won't get tiring fast.  Heed this warning:if you buy this game, don't go after the 1080 just yet, it's hard to master.  What more do I have to say?  Buy this game!This game is fantastic, and you won't be able to put it down for a long long time.  I have over 120+ hours played on my game save.  Final Fantasy VII Platinum Edition features a revamped old soundtrack...that I find 2x better than the PSone version's soundtrack.  Although it takes a while to adjust to the numpad controls, after playing for a while, you'll wonder how you would have done it any other way.  The on-screen controls are bizarre and during scenes such as the timed puzzle in the rocket ship, you'll have a hard time typing in key combos.  Materia allows you to use different magics on different characters, allowing for different characters to use Summons, Magic, and Cure.  My tip: don't give up solely because of the controls---this game is FANTASTIC and although I found the console experience more enthralling and easier to jump into, the PC version was much more cinematic and was totally worth it.  FF7 is by far the best game I have ever played, and you do not want to miss out on this adventure.  My only tip: don't save over the same file, especially before you enter the Northern Crater--you won't be able to exit it if you do.

Replayability: ***** (Tons of extra caves, quests, missions, mini-games to find, extra materia, weapons, limit-breaks, and bosses to fight well after the game is over.)

Gameplay: ***** (Amazing boss fights, you will be on the edge of your seat during battles, incredibly fun)

Story: ***** (The plot twists, the depth in the story, the emotions...its AMAZING)

Graphics: ***** (You can view on a big resolution, better textures and stuff.  More crisp than the PSone version)

Controls: **** (Takes a while to get used to, you won't want to try another control setup once you do)

Sound: ***** (Sound effects are recycled from the PSone game, BUT, the music was totally redone, and that is one of the biggest parts of this game)

Addictiveness: ***** (I stopped playing my other games for almost 4 months when I got into this game)

The best part of this game is that it is so easy to pick up and play.  The Ruby and Emerald Weapons provide you with more challenge than the last boss of the game.  Raising chocobos and minigames at the Golden Saucer couldn't be more fun, and this remains the only game besides World of Warcraft that I haven't uninstalled from my computer.  Final Fantasy VII is a keeper, and don't be discouraged by the prices on Amazon, by the time you're done with the game, you will believe it to be the best $50 you have spent on a game.  I would know, because I said the same thing.An interesting aspect of the Final Fantasy series was that all of the games were essentially an experiment. The first game was the ultimate experiment: will this game succeed or will Square go under? But each game was a stage in development.

FF- Choosing party, and character sprites in battle

(Before that, the Dragon Warrior games had battle head-on)

FFII- wound-developable characters

(Romancing SaGa later employed this, when you survive near death your hp goes up, when you fight alot attack goes up, etc.)

FF3J- simple job system (completely changes characters, no permanent skills)

FF4- Changing characters (a dark knight becomes a paladin)

FFV- Advanced job system (level up with one of the non-command skills to default class, and you permanently learn it, for instance the run skill you can learn from the thief, and then de-equip it)

FFVI- basic GF system (mainly just boosts skills)

FF7- basic weapon system

FF8- GF system

FF9- I heard it had some sort of advanced weapon system where different weapons learn different magic, never bought the game

Likewise, the plot in each was experimental. They fiddled around with the crystal concept in FF1, FF3J, FF4, FFV.  They had ruthless kings, dark overlords, and the occasional malicious squid. But the most intense game I have played so far was Final Fantasy 7. Why? Well, when halfway through the game your character doesn't even know who he is anymore, it is pretty interesting.  Not to mention you have combos to build, chocobos to raise and race (never was good at this), and some pretty weird items to collect (I mean honestly, what other game has you give some girl digestant in exchange for perfume and a dress for your male character to wear).FF 7 has always been my favorite game in the whole world, in fact, it is my whole world.  I play it everyday, but I was always sad, because I had to leave the playstation to go on the internet to read about and discuss FF 7.  But not anymore!  Now, FF 7 is out on the PC, and you have to buy it at any cost, so that you can laugh and cry and live the greatest experience of all time, the experience that is Final Fantasy 7, on your computer!  Just thinking about it is making me tear up a little.  I promise, you will not be disappointed.  The stunning, gut-wrenching visuals, the passionate, heart-wrenching storyline, the exciting, ball-wrenching combat system, the absolutely awe-inspiring characters...nothing could be more perfect.  You have not lived if you have not played this game.This is an awesome set of deluxe The Legend of Zelda video game guides. The box it came in is just great and I'm so happy they took the time to add to some of the books. While I did have some of these books already, the new and thicker Skyward Sword guide is really top notch.

My only complaint is that the box comes full. I have other guides and Zelda books like the historia book that I can't cram inside it with the others, but that's ok. They need to sell the chest on it's own as I could fill another chest with the Zelda guides I already have.

If you're a big Zelda fan and love the hardcover deluxe guides that they release with each game, this is a great box set and totally worth it!In this world, nothing is as it seems.  No one is who they say they are, and surprises lurk around every corner.  This is a wonderful game, with a rich story, great side quests, and great animation.  The evil Shin-Ra corporation has been mining Mako, an energy source that is the lifeforce of the Earth itself.  Avalanche is an underground resistance group headed by Barret, a man who's arm was lost in an explosion at a Mako refinery.  Cloud is a mercenary who used to work for SOLDIER, Shin-Ra's private army.  Sephiroth is a great warrior for SOLDIER, who has been lost for many years.  Now, Cloud is working with Avalanche, and Sephiroth has resurfaced, but he is now an insane, powerhungry man with a desire to use Black Materia to summon a meteor to destroy the world.  Materia are energy sources used in weapons to add skills to the user.  This game has a great story and a great battle engine, where you can customize 9 different characters with different materia.  This is a long game, but it is legendary.I have always been a FF fan ever since 2 was out. I've been loving it ever since and was glad that i played this. Let me tell you about the game:As you have probably found out from other reviews, it is about a rebel orginization named AVALANCHE who is saving the planet from Shinra Inc., who is polluting the Earth. One of these members is a man named Cloud, a 21 year old guy who was in a orginazation called Soldier, which is the army of Shinra. Possibly the greatest plot and climax I've ever seen. Great battles, they proved to be a challenge. Cloud, Sid, and Red 13 are my favorite charecters. Also some of the best movies in a game that i've seen for a long time. Espeically the 11 minute ending. Man that was good. ENJOY!Grim Fandango combines every element you look for in an adventure game in a fluent and involving fashion.  The plot, the comedy, the political intrigues, an occasional romance...  All right here!  One of the things I found most amusing was, whenever Manny (the main character)  manages to build his life (or is it death?) up again, you (the player)  takes over and manages to ruin it in a day!  (Whew, think I got enough  parenthesis in!)  If you enjoy an easy-going adventure game with a great  story to tell, this game's for you!If you liked Full Trottle and love LucasArts' games in general, you'll love this game. It's one of the funniest games I've ever played. The way all the charters talk hispanic is enough to me laugh out loud. Manny  Calavera is the most likeable anit-hero you'll ever have the pleasure to  control, in this fantastic Land of The Dead adventure game. Who said the  adventure games was dead. Grim Fandango proofs them all wrong...I just finished this game, and I really enjoyed it. If you like adventure games, you'll love this. The graphics are spectacular, and there are many new areas for you to explore as you journey though the game. There are many  more areas in this game than you typically find in any type of computer  game. Plus, the characters are great, and it actually has a storyline that  would stand up quite well all by itself. My only complaint would be that  some of the puzzles didn't make sense to me. At one point, you take a piece  of tape off the wall, and all of a sudden a character will talk to you who  never wanted to talk to you before. That's just one example. Many of the  puzzles do make sense, though. I still think this is a game that any  adventure gamer would enjoy.Only the best Videogame of all time for nearly almost 20 years in a row, on one of my most favorite console ever tooFinal Fantasy 7 is the best FF I have yet to play.  I have played 8 and 9 also, but 7 has the best music, battle system, and junctioning system of all of them (not to mention the greatest story-line in the history of everything!).  Besides a couple of translation errors, this game is perfect.  I was introduced to Final Fantasy 7, 3 years ago, and I still do not know many things about it. So if your looking for a long challenge ahead of you, but not a challenge so hard that it sucks the fun out of it, you should buy this game, and before they stop selling it.This RPG is a blast to play!  The graphics and battle system will blow you away when you first play it!  There's even a tutorial, so you can get in the game quicker!  As for the storyline, excellent!  The storyline goes all over the place, but that's what fun about it!  The game itself is also long and entertaining.  It took me 73 hours to finish, side-quests and all.  You even get an amusement park filled with games and wonderful items to help you on your quest.  Get this game!!!  It will get you hoooked on hours to come!!!This is the EPITOME of graphic adventures. No other game has even come close to GRIM FANTANGO when it comes to humor (of all shades and shapes), inventiveness, delicious irony, creative graphics and plain good-ol' FUN!!

This is a 10-year old game mind you - yet, it retains its freshness as any true work of art. THIS IS HOW COMPUTER GAMES SHOULD HAVE BEEN - and not the pathetic cookie-cutter products of mega-corporations working in-tandem with GX-card companies...

Your character (hilarious and lovable Manny Calavera) is already...dead when you start. In fact he has been dead for some time, stuck in limbo, trying to pay his way to a better afterlife by selling tickets to other souls on their way to paradise. Guess what: corruption is not limited just to this world. And where there is corruption, there is oppression; and where there is oppression, there is always a revolution brewing...

Realizing he is being duped, Manny reluctantly joins the afterlife underground and takes us in a tour de force of one of the MOST BEAUTIFUL GAME EVER PRODUCED. Immersing noirish atmosphere, detailed art-deco settings, fast Bogartian dialogs - with a subtle ironic frosting.

WARNING: There are known problems with today's faster processors. So, unless you have a really old system running Win98 you will need the WinXP PATCH (otherwise you will not get past the crane scene).

WITH THE HIGHEST RECOMMENDATIONS!!!This is without a doubt one of the best games ever made - adventure or otherwise. It is fun, amusing, original, colorful, and challenging without being annoying. The only games that came close to it may be the Monkey Island series or The Last Express. The game is beautifully designed, with unforgettable characters, amazing landscapes, and reminds me of being inside a really well-written movie. Sadly, LucasArts stopped making games like this, a loss for the world.You awake in a fairy tale world in a forest of faires, in front of you is the pinnacle of a hero of time, a ordinary child named link, thrown into a story of magical tragedy, love and war, fighting with swords, boomerangs and countless items in this open world rpg, adventure game. a classical magical artistic story of dark hope. From the moment i entered the tree, my deepest childish heart was immersed by The spooky chilling song of wonderus oblivion,  played with a dida jiu, envoks the dark gothical environment of smokey earth, a hidden sign of our own earthly desires and self destruction. the rest of the music is amazing and fits each place perfectly. I really like the hyrule field song of mystery and adventure. You gather items such as slingshots, bombs, magic spells, and the sword of time. This allows you to go to times and alter the other time to your advantage. The sun and moon take turns with night and day as you run through a beautiful hyrule field, a fire mountain and other magical places.  A legend of revolutionary gaming experience, exploration, story telling, magical youthfulness, a pioneer of open world environments with realistic time cycles. It feels like a real life fairy tale of magical gothical art and adventure. This is one of my biggest inspirational and memorial games and could be yours too.I had problems with it at first - crashing but then i installed the patch that i downloaded and it worked great. The game did remind me a lot of the Monkey Island series. Although monkey Island i'd say had the best music. Grim had ok music. Game was funny and at the end i wanted more- i finished it too fast (i shouldn't have used those cheats). Really recommended, I wish there was a part II.I don't go for adventure games, personally.  Ninety percent of the time, I prefer shooters.  But this one...man, it's so weird, so unique, and so GENIUS through and through, how can you not love it?

Here's the story.  Manny Calavera is a low-level salesman trying to earn an honest commission and make a decent day's pay, but it never seems to work out for him.  His boss is constantly on his back, he's routinely snaked by a competitor, Domino Hurley, and the right sales never come his way.  It's a lousy life to have.

Especially if you're already dead.

That's the twist; Manny, and just about everyone else in the game, is dead.  This whole game takes place in the Land of the Dead of Mexican/Aztec folklore, with a strong Art Deco influence, with heavy doses of '30s crime noir thrown in.  Everyone in the game is fashioned to look like the sugar skeletons used in Day of the Dead festivals (called 'calaveras'; get it?).

Manny works in the Department of Death, trying to work off his time for his misdeeds when he was alive.  He does that by trying to sell 'travel packages' to the recently deceased, so they can make their four-year journey across the Land of the Dead, until they reach the portal leading to the Land of Eternal Rest.  The quality of life this person lived determines whether they get to use a car, a luxury liner, or the exclusive No. 9 train, which speeds its passengers there in four minutes, instead of the customary four years.

Unfortunately, the kind of lowlifes who keep coming Manny's way only deserve walking sticks at best, which does absolutely nothing to help Manny work off his time.  So, he decides to take matters into his own hands and STEAL the right kind of client.

And that's when he gets in over his head.

The story is pure crime noir with a technicolor twist, like Raymond Chandler meets Tim Burton.  The plot Manny uncovers is convoluted, brilliant, deeply twisted, and diabolical like you've never imagined possible.  It's also incredibly, unspeakably funny.  Tim Schaefer is one absurd individual, make no mistake.

Yes, it's an old game, I know.  But the true classics know no age, and this is a classic all right.  So take advantage of the price, snap it up, and book a trip with your new favorite travel agent.  He's waiting for you...Grim Fandango has a very retro feel, sort of like Casablanca with an Art Deco Aztec twist. The game centers around Manny Calavera who is attempting to stay honest and make sense out of a Hispanic day of the dead afterlife which has been corrupted by those who control that afterlife for their own gain. All while Manny pursues the love of his afterlife! Confused? Trust me, it will all make sense once you start playing and the dialog and graphics will impress you and keep you hooked. I've tried a lot of the adventure games and they all have their flaws. But Grim Fandango comes as close to perfect as any game ever will. The controls are a little irritating but not as much as some newer games. This is the best adventure game out there and I strongly recommend that you try it.If they made more games like this, I'd be a pauper. Intelligent, funny, easy to use, easy to solve, and no bloody chess problems. It's also thought-provoking, gorgeous, well-written, and as believable as talking skeletons and elevator demons can make it. One of my favorites that I play over and over again. One caveat: At least one puzzle seems to be tied to processor speed, so if you have a fast machine you'll need to download a patch from the manufacturers' website. Well worth the trouble, though.Words really can describe how wonderful this game is. The first thing you will notice is the incredible graphics (note: a 3D card is not required!.) Everything is drawn in great detail right down to character traits and facial expressions (who would have thought a fleshless person would be so good with expressions.) The story is also very entertaining and added with the graphics, it makes this a very absorbing adventure. This is one of the few games that I can't say anything negative about. This is a must have!I've never played the Playstation version of this game and this was my  first time playing any sort of Final Fantasy game.  I originally purchased  it to watch the computer animation but quickly fell in love with the world,  the characters, and the dozens of things to do.
You start off playing  Cloud (or whatever you decide to name him) and are an ex-soldier now  fighting for a group called Avalanche who want to shut down a company  called Shinra because they're using Mako energy to power the city.  Mako  energy is the life energy of every living thing on the planet and once its  used up the planet will die.  From there you're quickly plunged into a  story about love, betrayal, duty, and saving the world.
I easily got 40+  hours of gameplay and the story blew me away.  Every time yu think you know  what's going on another clue pops up and blows everything else away.  There's an even balance between combat and actual RPG where you talk to  folks in towns.
This game also has great replayibility with dozens of  sub-quests and side games to keep you busy.  Can you raise a gold chocobo?  Can you defeat all three weapons?  Can you find all the mega-elixers?  Can  you gain the secret characters?  Can you find everyone's super technique  and ultimate weapons?
The story was amazingly detailed, the characters  were all unique, and the game pulled no punches.  I highly reccomend it.Not a whole lot to say except that as far as adventure games go, this is  the standard that all others should try to exceed.
Outstanding voice  acting and scripting. Hilarious game without making fun of itself. Tough  but logical puzzles that will have you scratching your head. Beautiful and  ORIGINAL storyline, movie material right here.
This is what adventure  gaming was fated for.Grim Fandango will definitally be enjoyed by fans of film noir and mexican mythology. I'd give it a 4 and a half if i could. The graphics have their flaws and the game runs choppy on systems not far ahead of the system requirements. Some of the puzzles are utterly impossible to figure out without incredible luck or the aid of a stradegy guide but the game is truly astonishing. You follow the character Manny Calavera, a travel agent for the dead, guiding souls to their final resting place in the best way possible. For some reason, Manny is denied any premium clients. Whos behind all this? Find out over a 4 year journey from the dusty streets of El Marrow, to the edge of the world and back again. Absolutely beautiful backgrounds and film noir-ish music immerse you in the atmosphere. Clever interface and variable controls are great. A very involving game. Not too long not too short. Humor and wit are weaved through every scene. In conclusion, film noir style, surreal visuals, toe tapping and ensuing music, gripping story, charming characters, and challenging puzzles will intrigue all game fans.Real official game for just $20! I have the 3DS version of this game so I was curious about the original. I say it's worth the money, unless you feel it's to pricey then just get the 3DS version that's also $20 at Walmart. My only complaint is that it looks a little blurry on my TV. So I suggest if you want the best 64 games Nintendo has to offer, this is definitely a don't miss! I also recommend getting the N64 redesign analog stick, hyper pak plus, and a expansion pak for the best N64 gameplay experience ever!!!Who doesn't love GoldenEye and the once cutting edge graphics! Still better then a lot of the shooters out today!This is a must have for a Zelda collector. Even if it just goes on a shelf to never be opened, it looks great! Some of the guides in it I never saw released (Twilight Princess) and I wonder how I missed them. Great buy for the just over $100 I paid. A lot of the guides by themselves are selling $40-50 ea.awesome game form the 90s, but its a little hard to play now as I've been spoiled with two joysticks on the controller. But once you get the hand of the controls then its still and amazing gameThis was truly one of the best games I have played in a long time. It has challenging puzzles that may at times seem impossible but the solution is often right before your eyes. Based upon the Mexican Day of the Dead it  gives the player a little bit of background while keeping them entertained.  Great game, lots of P.I. cliches, mentally stimulating, and just plain FUN!I was very dubious when I started playing Grim Fandango.  An adventure game with polygons?  And the SCUMM menu interface system that was in every single past Lucasarts adventure game was gone?  But I gave it a try.  Thank  goodness I did.
Grim Fandango is a story about Manny Calavera, a travel  agent for the souls of the dead.  He sells packages to the departed for  their four year journey to their just rewards, and if he sells enough he  can earn enough to make his own trip someday.
Imagine the theme of  Casablanca with some mexican folklore and Mayan art thrown in for fun.  Add  big orange demons, hot rods, killer beavers, cat races, and the grim reaper  and you have Grim Fandango.
The story is supurb and the voice acting was  top notch.  It's very difficult to do a dramatic yet humorous story, but  somehow this game pulls it off.  Grim Fandango could yank me to the brink  of tears one moment and cause me to almost bust a gut another.
The things  that make a good adventure game are all there.  Logical puzzles that don't  cause your gameplay to come to a standstill until you solve them, good  acting, good animation, and good code!  If I were ever forced to reccomend  only on adventure game to someone, this would be it.Possibly the most original game idea in the history of adventure games, _Grim Fandango_ has a charm which is all in the execution.  This is as close to being in a movie as the adventure game genre has yet allowed.  Blending the tradition of Mexican folklore with the suave of sixties' beat  culture and the style of _The Big Combo_, _Fandango_ is a sensory  explosion.  Somewhat courageously, it does *not* attempt to make its  graphics realistic.  Rather, it searches successfully to use its medium to  best effect.  Like the best films, _Fandango_ manipulates its elements to  produce a world unto itself.  Its first-rate direction and hitherto  unique-to-adventure-games 3D technology  points the way forward for the  adventure games.
True, some of the puzzles are hard, but none of them  really seem out of place.  Indeed, there is with _Grim Fandango_ a true  sense of plot.  Maybe the characters don't develop as they do in novels or  great films, but, thanks to fine vocal talent and crisp writing, they do  maintain charming integrity throughout.
If I have a complaint with the  game, it is the interface by which your character, Manny, communicates with  others.  You choose from among several sentence options, like those old  "choose-an-ending" books.  It's not a *bad* way to play a game, I  suppose, but just as multiple choice tests are always easier than writing  essays, being able to choose from amongst a few limited options make it  easier to get information out of the rest of the game's cast.  As a  result, solving problems is sometimes dead simple.  Of course, there aren't  many better options for game developers trying to give players a sense of  control of their destinies, but it makes one long for the day when the  promise of a game like _Titanic_, with its limited ability to understand  unique phrases typed in by the player, might be more fully realized.
Some people, though, might like the fact that they exhaust their  investigations of other characters pretty quickly.  It does speed game  play, and isn't as frustrating as trying to find the right questions on  your own might be.  This *is* a big game, with lots of scenes and lots of  people to meet.  Speed-of-play matters.  So, even if I personally believe  there must be a better way to communicate to other characters, I can hardly  rate the game down for what is possibly the best solution currently  available.
Thus, even if you think you don't like adventure games, you  should still buy _Grim Fandango_.  Likewise, if you don't have time to play  adventure games, you should get a walkthrough and cheat your way to the  end, because the graphics, story, and soundtrack are just that good.  This  is one of the seminal achievements in the genre, and to miss out on it  would be to accept a huge gap in your understanding of where the games  industry might be heading.the video game designer,director and producer shigeru miyamoto is the greatest video game designer,director and producer in the universe a true genius the best of the best the video game designer,director and producer shigeru miyamoto rocks,every single nintendo video game in existence that miyamoto either directed or produced or designed are the greatest video games in the universe there true classics the best of the best every single nintendo video game in existence that miyamot either directed or produced or deisgned rocks ^_^My favorite first person shooter game. As a matter of fact, the only first person shooter game I have ever owned. Rareware was at its best at that time, and the game really brings back a lot of memories. Continues to be great even today, although the graphics haven't aged well...The Legend of Zelda Box Set looks spectacular, awesome, masterpiece & magnificent . It's truly miracle, fantastic & unbelievable & incredible. The guide books inside are very handy & useful. I'm completely satisfied & accepted with the method & way David Hodgson authorized the Legend Of Zelda Full Box SetI first played The Legend of Zelda not long after it was released. Best Christmas gift ever! I do not think there is a single negative thing I could say about this product. It has the classic adventure story: traveling across far out lands to save the princess, all the while discovering yourself along the way. When you are not in dungeons or fighting evil characters, you can do a lot of fun things like explore towns, go horseback riding, archery, hurt chickens and then try  to avoid their gang attack, play your ocarina, go fishing and see how large of a fish you can catch, etc. There is so much variety in this game that it is impossible to get bored. Also, the music in this game is PHENOMENAL. Did you know that there is a Zelda soundtrack you can purchase? There are also some guide books and online walk throughs if you find yourself a little stuck and are in need of some helpful hints.

Price wise, I have found Zelda games for less via Ebay, but you usually have to bid on them. Unless you want to pay several hundred dollars for a "new in box" game, expect the cartridge to look used from being well loved over the years.If the game defines multiplayer, this is the one.

Other than outdated graphics and poor single-player experience, it revolutionized first-person shooter with slick controls, intense difficulty, and fun multiplayer with up to 4 players and more than 10 maps and characters to choose from.

GoldenEye 007 was a blast from the past. The best movie-license game of the 007 franchise!Still fun in 2016. If you have a 64 and do not own this game what're you doing? Do you hate yourself? Stop reading and buy this now.This is one of the greatest games of all time. Much has been said and will continue to be said
about this passage in the Zelda story. What I really want to focus on is how awesome the battle mechanics are in this game, it works so well and rarely any games of modern era can even touch it's sword play mastery. It's so satisfying to fight bosses and sword wielding enemies.
Everything about this game is legendary, the music, the characters , the story, it just leaves you wanting more. This is what fantasy adventure is about, standing the test of time and continuing to teach us all something great.
I can't wait to revisit this on the Nintendo 3ds version. It's a complete remaster from what Ive seen.This was my favorite game growing up so there was no question I had to get it when my wife found her old N64.  I got it used but it works great and starts up with no problems.  Works just as good as it did when I was a kid.I Just keep it around my house to feel like an awesome person. Sometimes people come over and high five me.It has been called the greatest fps of all time. Buy It for yourself and see why. You can do it, I believe in youThe Best James Bond game ever made! Still has yet to be one that tops Goldeneye lol C'mon Rare make an all new original James Bond game cause we gamers NEED one please!Well its Goldeneye. I played this as a kid back when it was new. Just wanted to play it again years later lol. Not as good as it was in the 90s but still fun.Thank you. My Zeldas both got stolen by a bum stoner a couple years ago and with a couple other games I've recently noticed. I did not expect much when I thought of looking on Amazon for games for older systems then I found this and I even got the one that came with the box and instructions. Very rare deal and amazing price. Thank you.This box set is a wonderful addition to any Legend of Zelda collection! This set includes 6 Prima Guides, a metal bookmark, a certificate of authenticity, and a magnetic-closure treasure chest. The Prima guides included are for the games: Ocarina of Time 3D, Spirit Tracks, Phantom Hourglass, Wind Waker HD, Twilight Princess, and Skyward Sword. The guides speak for themselves, they walk you through all aspects of these games, giving you tips and help to complete the games. All of the books are high-quality hard cover, with gold-edged pages. I am a huge fan of the Legend of Zelda, and this box set was a perfect addition to my collection. I would recommend this box set to any fan of this franchise, plus the price on Amazon can't be beat!A classic game for a classic system. This game can still be sited as the best Zelda game of all time by some, and if it's not the best Zelda game period, it's definitely a top contender for the best 3D Zelda game. A must-play for N64 owners. My copy was delivered as described.I bought this game because everyone in my family loves Zelda and I had been trying to find it everywhere ,I was so happy when I seen it on Amazon ,I have no complaints it works just like if it was brand new .Oh, the memories. You: Bond. Me: Oddjob. Multilayer deathmatch. Proximity mines. Silenced weapons. Challenges. Awesome levels. Replayability: through the roof. A game that truly belongs in almost any N64 game collection, it'seems a true classic now.This is a really great set of player's guides for the recent Zelda games and I would recommend it to all fans of the Zelda games.Was everything I remember it being and everything I was promised I was paying for :)I am a serious collector, and this is one of my all-time favorites! Needed a replacement for a never returned copy...this one was in perfect condition, even better than described! Buy it now while it's still around, every gamer needs this one!!!I've looked all over for GoldenEye for my old school N64 but never could find it. Then I found it on Amazon, this is a nice change from the all digital world of FPS games. The graphics are not bad, but if you plan on playing this on your HDTV I would recommend getting a converter that takes the VGA ( Yellow, White & Red ) cables an converts the VGA signal to HDMI so you can play on your High Definition TV. Played this on christmas with the relatives an they were having a blast. Didn't think they would considering it's N64 an not Xbox ONE.

Just playing the game gives you a view of how far technology has come, it might be old an not as detailed as some FPS games but still gives you a perspective of what technology used to look like back in 1996 when the N64 was released. Today this game remains a favorite among gamers. If you have kids & a N64 id take the xbox away for a day an have them play N64 so they can see where & how technology has taken Gaming. Just don't let them play 007 GoldenEye, have them play Diddy Kong Racing.This is the Zelda game without the scary moon, I always told myself as a kid.This is really quite the treat for collectors. The presentation is stunning - from the fun box to the sturdy books to the certificate proving the uniqueness of your set. For the hardcore Zelda fan this both useful for strategy and cool as a keepsake.An oldy, but a goody. Countless hours of battles between my brothers and I. Only problem was screen peeking, which we solved with a screen divider made from cardboard(Oh yeah). Definitely recommend it to anyone with a N64.I played this when it first came out on the Nintendo 64.  Once I started I couldn't put it down until I beat every level on every difficulty.  Back than my friends and I worked 2nd shift and after work would come over and play multiplayer into the morning.  Occasionally I still get nostalgic and pop the cartridge in to revisit my favorite levels.  The graphics are dated now but the game play is still fun.  Researching the games development history to find things that never made it into the finished version but whose code is still included in the cartridge and can be accessed is interesting as well. If you have an old Gameshark for instance you can use it to walk to the mysterious island off in the distance of the Dam Level.  A great game all around.I believe the year was 1999 and I would play this game with 3 other friends all day, every day. It was like we were hooked. Proximity mines, rockets, power weapons we played it all. The single player is amazing as well. Just an all time classic that never gets old.It was perfect. Game was in great condition, sticker on it was great. Thanks for being honest. Everything was as describe. Thanks again!I haven't opened these. I have paperback versions that I use. I wanted this as a collectible only.a a aFun gift for gamers because it's nostalgic. This is for N64 consoles and it is first person shooter. Has multi-player option but you beat levels playing solo.Ocarina of Time is one of the best games ever, let alone for the N64. It came pretty quickly, plays great after 16 years, and you can easily spend hours on it. Every gamer should play it. But beware of the text speed.This game was awesome when I was little and owned my original N64, and it's still awesome to this day. You just can't outdo a good thing, and this game proves it.Brings back memories of days long gone by. As i've turned from kid to teen, from teen to young adult and some day to old man, the nostalgia and memory of my childhood in the '90s becomes ever more appealing to me. Back in the days of summer vacations, weekends off, few worries and fewer obligations and responsibilities.Just amazing.  High quality and all the Zelda feels.  Do yourself a favor and get this.  A must have in any crazy Zelda fan's arsenal.Banjo-Kazooie is a game that didn't really appeal to me at first.  It looked to childish, to easy, and just basically stupid.  Comming from the  epic company Rareware, I was a bit more interested in what this game was  about.  Seeing so many good reviews and so many possitive aspects, I  realized I must give this game a try.  Well, was I ever lucky to do so.  Keeping with the Mario 64 type control style and the amazing graphics, I  couldn't put the game down.  Even though the game was kiddie looking and  very childish too, it was really placed for us people who love adventure  games.  The little things, such as the mini games, make this game even  better than it already was.  Imagine running around in the snow in a race  against a sleding polar bear or playing follow the leader with a giant  ghost hand.  These are only a few of the things you can do in the game.  The game flows a little different than Mario fans might be used to; you  have many things to collect.  For starters, your main objective is to find  all the Jiggys on a level so you can gain access to all other levels.  Also, music notes are needed to break the witches spell on doors throughout  her lair.  And even little guys called Jinjo's are here for you to collect,  so they can help you on your journey, through a forest, islands, deserts,  and many other worlds.  If you have seen a Rare game, you know that they  have good graphics, so no exception here, very well done.  The music is  also a plus feature on this game.  With so many great reviews by people of  all ages and sexes, you would be doing yourself a great disjustice by not  buying this game.Playing this game again after so many years really makes me realize why it is truly one of the greatest games ever.. Must play!...for it's time

Going back and replaying this game is weird and fun. it's fun to see how bad the graphics were, and how you didn't see it that way back in the day.

considering how easy it is to buy old games, this is a must buy!I bought this set for my son. I am not a gamer, so I will state what I know about quality, and what my son has shared with me.

I was quite impressed with the quality of the books. Hard covered, gilded edge pages, good binding.

My son is thrilled with the content. Good graphics and he says the information is helpful.Great game.  This was the first Zelda game I ever played and what an adventure it was.  If you like your game worlds big with plenty to explore you'll love this game.  You'll be putting a lot of hours in during your first play through and probably still won't find all that's hidden throughout its worlds.  This is a Nintendo masterpiece and easily one of the best games I've ever played.this game is so freakin fun, especially on 4-player with cheats, probably my favorite N64 game. Never loses its replay value.I remember playing multiplayer tournaments on this when I was younger and still play against my son when I can.I share a great relationship with this game. Before it came out, I received a promotional VHS Tape in the mail that told me about the game, its stages, and gameplay. It was a better instruction manual than the booklet! I also love how the footage was taken from the beta version of the game. With its promotional montage, you could tell this was also back when they were going to make Conker's game another cartoony adventure rather than the adult-oriented one they ended up making.
 - Anyway the game is fantastic, a perfect supplement to Super Mario 64. In some ways it's actually better. When I was a kid I used ALL the cheats, to just have fun and explore. I played it enough times to 100% the game in two hours. And then when GameFAQs started to be a thing, I used the lesser-known cheats to get the ice key and the secret eggs. For those who like those old days of collecting stuff, this is the game to get.the video game company rareware is the greatest video game company in the universe there true genius's the best of the best the video game company rareware rocks,the year 2015,2016 and 2017 for rareware are the greatest years for rareware in the universe there perfect years the best of the best the year 2015,2016 and 2017 for rarewre rocks ^_^Enjoying playing this game with no complaints. Met my expectations and would do business again with this seller again.One of the best games on the Nintendo 64 and one of the best 3D Platformers ever.Great gift set just as expected a must have for any zelda fan. Will keep for ever priced fair tooOca rina of time brings back fond memories. my brother & I both beat the game. The graphics still hold up well
today and puts present games to shame. It may be the greatest videogame ever created, who knows? You can
freely explore the landscape, the difficulty level is just right. There's no need for a strategy guide, if you're clever &
smart. Zelda even puts the Super Mario games to shame in my opinion. I don't have my N64 any more so I'd download
it on my WII VC, better than paying those ridiculous prices on Amazon, only fools & sheep would pay that much for
an old video game. It only costs you $11.00 for the WII VC version, so do the math, fools! I've been a Zelda fan since
the 1st Zelda on the NES, Shigeru Miyamoto is the greatest video game designer of all time, he should be in the
Video Game Hall of Fame. Zelda influenced the action/rpg genre, even to this day. Even Sony made a Zelda clone
game called "Dark Cloud", remember that game? But anyway, if you haven't played OOT, do yourself a favor and
buy an actual copy or download from WII VC.This is a great game to own I have and I beaten It  ten times and I sill play it the level's are pretty to look at the background's are ok it's colorful and a little rich here and there.
Play through five world's there are:
1 South Pacific
2 Antarctica
3 Area 51
4 London
5 India
New Moves, and Vehicles:
Speed Dash, Monkey swing,  kayak and quad bike help Lara out of tricky situations.
New weapons like:
1 Grenade Launcher
2 Desert Eagle
3 Rocket Launcher
In the game fine the ancient meteor rumored to have life giving power's. HEY! get ready for anything.
Kill or be kill by:
1 Hyenas
2 Monkeys
3 Piranhas
4 T-Rex
PS. save your heath pack you are going to need them.
Be careful out there I would if I was you take It slow
GOOD LUCK!!Lara's back in the third installment of the "Tomb Raider" series. This time, it's better than ever! You can explore massive 3D levels in such locations as:
India:
1. Jungle
2. Temple Ruins
3. River Ganges
4. Caves Of Kaylia
South Pacific Islands:
5. Coastal Village
6. Crash Site
7. Mudabu Gorge
8. Temple Of Punu
London:
9. Thames Warf
10. Aldwych
11. Lud's Gate
12. City
Nevada:
13. Neveda Desert
14. High Security Compound
15. Area 1
Antartica:
16. Antartica
17. RX-Tech Mines
18. Lost City Of Tiken
19. Meteorite Cavern
Bonus Level In London: All Hallows
Lara kicks butt on her quest for the four artifacts as she battles enemy's like:
Tony (India Boss)
King Punu (South Pacific Island Boss)
Miss Safai Lee (London Boss)
Lara's Employer (Antartica Boss)
Awesome gameplay and graphics, includes weapons such as:
Pistols
Uzis
Shotgun
Mp5 Machine Gun
Grenade Launcher
Rocket Launcher
Harpoon Gun
Desert Eagle Shotgun
Even check out a cool feature where Lara can practice moves in her own estate!
Tomb Raider 3 is unargueably the best Tomb Raider yet, keep an eye out for the newest Tomb Raider "Tomb Raider: Angel Of Darkness" for Playstation2 and PC.
Here are the Tomb Raider series in a list of my favorites:
1. Tomb Raider 3
2. Tomb Raider 4: Last Revelations
3. Tomb Raider 5: Chronicles
4. Tomb Raider 2
5. Tomb Raider
Thanks for reading!!I purchased this game after a nostalgia case I had (lol) and it worked just fine. I would buy another if this one failed.These books are much higher quality than the standard release strategy guides.  Obviously the books are hardbound allowing them to be more durable, but also the pages are printed on 80lb paper so they are thicker more durable pages than the original magazine releases.  The material has also been revised from the original print so they are the most complete and accurate of the guides to date.  I just received my guides recently and I have copy number 49647 of 50000.  When these are gone Prima has said that they will not be reprinted.  They have also released a collector's guide individually for A Link Between Worlds that I grabbed as well.  Again the quality of the information inside is excellent as is the quality of these books that will surely become collector's items.  Here's hoping they also release books for Majora's Mask when it inevitably releases on the 3DS as well as the new Zelda adventure for the Wii U later this year or Spring 2015, whenever it is ready.This is game was based on the movie and they hit it spot on! Playing the levels are fun, but this is the perfect game to play if you are just sitting around with a few friends talkin about the old times.I loved this game, and playing it now after all these years it's still awesome.  Multiplayer on a split screen is still fun.This game is so good! The dungeons are well thought out and a blast to play!! This game makes you use your mind and the fighting mechanics are amazing.I was worried about getting this but I did anyways because I have been after it for a long time. I was worried because it was Used-Acceptable but it has played great so far (though I haven't gotten very far yet) So so far I am so glad I went ahead and ordered it.amazing

cool awesome interesting guides of the legend of Zelda

excellent collectors edition item

great for Zelda fans

super coolOne of the games that made n64 so great, had graphics for the time, multiplayer all around fun and in my opinion one of the best games of it's timewith this game you play through each level in the movie.  this is when James Bond was James Bond.  you can choose from a whole list of players to choose from to play as.  you can get any kind of weapon just about through the whole game.  and you can even play with some friends on missions.  if you have never played a n64 what are you waiting for.  5 out of 5.  super fun.Such a good gift. This is for N64 and makes a great gift for gamers. Super nostalgic and fun game. Complicated and time-consuming, but a lot of fun.One of the best video games ever.

Redefined everything after it.

My copy came in very good condition without scratches or writingLove this game. Although the graphics aren't the best since it's N64 and earlier on.... I enjoy everything about it (still keeping in mind the limitations of the time such as the 'invisible walls' and oddly prism shaped bottles etc). The story is well done and unlike other Zelda games, all of the items are used. There were some early on copies with a song/chanting in the fire temple that got taken out in later copies because some people got offended by that and the mirror shield (I have one such copy) but even with that in mind, it's still an amazing game with great music and it sort of ties all of the zelda games together like a central hub. It all comes down to this game.... definitely worth your time to play.I already have all the Zelda Collectors edition guides but I decided to purchase this as well just to add to my collection. Everything is so great in this little box I recommend it to any fan that either missed out the first time or if you're a collector since they come with specially marked numbers.This game is totally mind blowing, so many areas to cover, hours of play and has awesome amazing graphics and so much more to conquer! 5+Stars *****Buy this game!! It worth the money.I LOVE THIS GAME. It is so funny and a bit hard to beat. The hardest level is in the temple where a shuttle is launching and you have to collect data, kill Jaws, get launch tape and launch the shuttle. My favorite level is the Facility Level. That level is so funny and you can shoot the scientists, but it will fail the mission if they were killed. My cousin and I love to blow up the enemies and scientists. My favorite is shooting the scientists and enemies in their butts and they would jump up and down rubbing their butts and then they will fight back and the scientists will threw grenades at you. The controls are easy and this game is better and funnier than the movie. BUY THIS GAME.The multiplayer is amazing but most reviews already cover that. I still have yet to beat the last level "Cradle" and the 2 bonus missions on the hardest difficulty after 12 years, and yet I am addicted to trying over and over. I finished the Campaign twice on the 1st 2 difficulties. Each difficulty higher, the more parts of the level you explore, and the more crazy scenarios you will experience, places and scenarios that you did not experience in the easier difficulties.. Many missions you can go about using stealth or guns blazing. It is always fun trying to beat facility or Bunker #1 with just a silenced pp7 without alerting anyone. Nothing is more satisfying than shooting 2 gaurds to death with a silenced ppk before they can hit the alarm. In some levels if you are feeling arrogant, you can hit the alarm yourself and take on hundreds of enemies and go rambo. There is so much about this game I could go on for days about how amazing this game is. No modern AAA FPS has surpassed Goldeneye on N64 campaign to this day. The remakes have been complete crap, despite the amazing COD engine. If you own a N64 and love perfect dark or other great FPS adventures you will love this.I remembered a time my older brother borrowed this game from a friend of his. I liked it so much but when it came to the time for my brother to give it back i was upset. But no worries I was 7 at the time when that happened now that I'm older i was able to buy my own copy.The game looked brand new, even though it was used. It worked perfectly. Super happy I got to have one of my childhood favorite games now.The best game for the N64. if you are to have 5 games for the system it needs to be Mario 64, Mario Kart, Smash Bros, Banjo Kazooie, and Zeldahe loves zelda and loves anything that has to do with zelda so anything will make him happy. he loved the box it came in to. Also the packaging was really good and sturdyWhat can I say about this game? I bought it to replace one that was stolen when I was a kid. It's great to hear those classic sound effects and that legendary music. EPIC.An anthropomorphic bear and a cheeky bird save his bear sister from a witch who wants to suck out her sexiness and use it to give herself a boob/nose job. Five-Stars.The cartridge was clean and worked perfectly! Loved this game as a child and even more so now as a young adult!In the year 1997, Goldeneye was released for the Nintendo 64 by Rare, an unknown company and new 2nd party developer. Rare had already made several games for the NES and enters the Nintendo 64 market with this release based on the classic James Bond movie of the same title. You can ask anyone who had a Nintendo 64 if they ever played this game and why it was so popular. You're guaranteed to hear 2 reasons in particular why this game is so revered.

REASON #1: This game is a prime example of how a developer took its time to make this game. It was more than 2 years since the movie it was based on came out and Rare had access to everything concerning the movie from the original orchestral music, likeness of the main characters and locations to the bonus villains of other James Bond movies such as Oddjob and Mayday. They didn't rush this out the door like some developers do when they wanted their games released alongside the films it was based on and it always guaranteed to be a huge mistake. This game was a huge success and is still played by many video gamers.

REASON #2: Nintendo had no idea that the multi-player section of this game would be just as popular to play in or more popular than the single player mode. Rare admitted in an interview after the game was released that they had no intentions of putting together a multi-player mode until later in its development stages. Though it may be limited by today's standards, you had the basics: several stages based on the single player mode, all of the weapons were available, all of the main characters plus the enemy soldiers and classic Bond villains and several game modes such as free for all death match, team death match, you only live twice (2 lives) etc. and you can select the weapons in group categories along with time limits per match. This added a lot of re-playability after you finished the single player mode.

If you don't have a Nintendo 64, this game is reason enough to get it. This game helped Nintendo sell so many systems and it is a title I highly recommend getting if you can find it. It's a great game to play by yourself and an absolute blast to play with 3 of your friends. Peace. :)GoldenEye 007 was simply the greatest game ever made. No if, ands or buts. This game stood out from the rest giving itself the title of the almighty master of the game world. My Uncle Steve was the first person to tell me about the game in 1997 and told me I had to get Goldeneye and told me Its the best game he ever played and he only had a Playstaion at the time. I played this game when it first game out I was 11 years old and I'm now 24 and still love it to the death. GoldenEye set the standards for every FPS that has followed.Awesome controls, greta levels, killer music, loads of cool guns and awesome James Bond.  The perfect shooter!  Played this one a lot.i played this game when i was about 15, and i'm now 24 and still love it to the death (literally). I have a blast shooting other things other than just people and watching bullet holes go into the items and how it looks so freaking real. I also have always loved how you can choose many different people in 2 player mode, such as 007 to scientist. The golden gun is the coolest because it only takes on shot to kill, but if you like a really smashing good time, you can always punch or cut your way out. A must have game for the 64 :-)Goldeneye set the standards for every FPS that has followed. It is the best of the best. The levels are action packed and extremely memorable. I can do the levels in my head I've played them so many times. The graphics are dull now, but back in the day these visuals were top notch. The music involves some of the best techno I've ever heard. The game is also surprisingly difficult. I took me ten years to beat all the difficulty levels. The multiplayer is ahead of it's time with four player large arena style deathmatches. This game should be missed by no one, pick up a copy today and first hand see the best.

Presentation- This game captures what it is to be James Bond. There are a great deal of weapons, cool menus, and music that still rocks to this day. All around a great feeling game the blood rolling down the screen after you die is epic. 5/5

Story- The game follows the story of Goldeneye pretty closely, and there are two bonus levels that follow other Bond movies. Including one of the hardest levels of all time the Aztec based on the movie Moonraker. 5/5

Graphics- This game looked amazing for it's day, now it may be unimpressing but remember what the world of N64 looked liked. 5/5/

Game play- This is the part that could be helped by a remake. The N64 controller only has one joystick. This is awkward sometimes, but the use of the c-pad to strafe helps. Nintendo please remake this amazing gem. 4.5/5

Sound- Some of the best music in a video game ever made. Catchy music that I even have on my Ipod to this day. 5/5

Lasting Appeal- I still play this game regularly when the current generation games anger me. I can play levels in my head, need I say more. This game will never be forgotten or equaled. 5/5

Rating 4.9/5I am a Zelda fan and I am absolutely delighted to add this to my collection. Any die hard Zelda fan would and should add this to their collection as well.What can be said about Ocarina of Time? I still remember that commercial from the late 90s. It told us that a "dark time is approaching." My interest was piqued. Then I realized it was a Zelda game. As a huge fan of A Link to the Past, I thought "ZOMG that looks awesome! I need to get this more than I've ever needed to get anything!" I remember reading about it in GamePro and obviously being interested, but that commercial sealed the deal. I knew I had to have Ocarina of Time, and that Christmas, my mom got it for me. Cheers!

A lot has been said about OoT over the years. It has been referred to as the "Best Game of All Time" by some, and the "Most Overrated Game of All Time" by others. I'm not really in either camp, but I lean closer to the former group, I suppose. If you haven't played it yet, you should. It's out on a variety of platforms and there's even remake of it with better graphics, but I would still recommend the N64 version if you want the same experience people had back in the 90s when OoT was THE GAME you needed to play.

Story:

You are Link. The Great Deku Tree, guardian of the forest in which you live, has summoned you. It's revealed that you must visit a far off castle and meet a "Princess of Destiny," and doing so brings you square into a struggle for the fate of Hyrule -- nay, the world -- itself.

Gameplay:

To complete your quest and save Hyrule, you must boldly enter into many dungeons which are filled with fierce skeletal warriors, human-sized spiders, horrible ghosts, and... immobile venus fly traps! Completing a dungeon gives you an item for the main quest, and completing all of the dungeons will allow you to face the final boss. There's much more to it that, but I'm trying not to spoil storyline specifics for those who haven't played it.

Hyrule is a vast world. One of your in-game guides tells you that "You can go wherever you want." That's true, to a point. There's a lot of exploration in Ocarina of Time. The game is always trying to point you toward a certain place, but whether or not you go there is often up to you. In an interactive world such as Hyrule, you can do many things. Why go see what's on Death Mountain when you could pour water into all of the soil patches in Hyrule? Or why go play the Shadow Temple -- which does not have any attractive Gerudo women -- when you could go to the Spirit Temple, which does? The exploration is one of OoT's best features, and it's probably better than any Zelda which came after it.

Controls:

They work well enough. You don't have the full on camera control that some of the later Zelda games give you, but personally, I never found it all that essential to the process.

Ocarina of Time introduced a "Z-targeting system" for aiming at enemies and talking to non-playable characters. What you do is get near an enemy/NPC, press or hold Z, and then press a button to talk to them/attack them. The system pretty intuitive and well made, so much so that its successors have yet to really improve upon it.

Music:

*90s gripe* Where is the classic Zelda overworld theme? Oh, we can hear it for like five seconds in the Hyrule Field theme? ARE YOU SERIOUS? But seriously, the music is pretty good. The Hyrule Field theme which I just mentioned is a good theme. The music does a good job of fitting the areas which you visit, for the most part.

Some later Zelda games use too much ambient music in the dungeons. OoT is guilty of this too, but only to a small degree. Apart from the Water Temple's melody, there's nothing that makes me want to relax and do some meditation or whatever while hearing it. :P

Oh, and I'm sad to report that the "OoT Commercial Music" is not in this game... :(

Replay Value:

It's pretty massive. You can do some Temples in different orders than you did your first time through, or you can use different items to progress through the Temples. I summed it up in a sentence, but there's hundreds of hours of replay potential there in just finding all of OoT's possible variations.

Like in the original Legend of Zelda, you can do the "Three Heart Challenge," which means you can complete the game without any of the health upgrades from beating a dungeon. Essentially, that's playing Hard Mode (although it isn't really that hard).

But if the Three Heart Challenge wasn't enough, OoT lets you tack on additional stipulations to make replaying it even harder! There are technically unnecessary items which let you breathe underwater and resist intense heat. Not getting them limits the amount of time you can spend in relevant areas. On top of all that, you could even as far to skip the health upgrades which halve your damage.

______

If you call yourself a gamer and have not played Ocarina of Time, what are you? Some undercover non-gamer sent in to infiltrate us!? Go play it now!Seriously. As awesome as the games before and after this game are, there is truly NO touching OOT. The story is amazing and well thought out, the game play is simple, the music is suburb, and all console Zelda games stem from this right here. SUCH as excellent game. There is no surprise many gaming magazines regard OOT as the greatest Zelda game or Video Game...of all time.Very fun game to play, and has an excellent story line to play. Lots of different equipment to use, and the game isn't overly difficult to beat.It's ocarina of time. I just wanted to get it for my fiancee for christmas because she loves the game.This is one of the most creative and original games I have ever played. The level design, collecting elements, and excellent graphics, paired with a top-notch soundtrack by Grant Kirkhope makes for an amazing platformer.GoldenEye 007 is not only the best movie tie-in game of all time, but it is perhaps the most influential first-person shooter ever to hit the gaming-console market.  If you aren't aware of the plot of this game that's not a problem, because essential it is the same as the popular James Bond movie, GoldenEye, which was released in 1995- two years prior to this game's release.

This is a game that is filled with techniques and styles that would be mimicked in many future games to come, and it gives the player a wide variety of objectives, and difficult challenges.  The A.I. is smart (especially on higher difficulty settings) and the environments are complex enough to provide entertainment, as well as difficulty to any gamer.

The introduction of logical hit-points on your enemies is a great feature.  Even bosses in this game can be taken down with a well-aimed shot to the head.  It is this type of realism that really makes you feel like your James Bond and that you can sneak in, sneak out, covertly taking out henchmen as you go, or springing alarms and having to go through massive shootouts.  Because of this there are many ways to beat the game, and limitless possibilities for how you accomplish your tasks.  AKA: You can take easy ways or hard ways of beating levels...and if you don't have a strategy guide you'll have to find out those paths by yourself (which, I might add, is incredibly fun if you want to waste a day away).

This is one of those games that the more you play it the more you're able to value its contributions to the gaming industry.  Each time I play it I notice aspects that have been replicated in many following FPS games.  So if you have a Nintendo 64 go ahead and dust that sucker and order a used copy of GoldenEye 007, because trust me, as a Bond fan, and a casual gamer I can say that this game is highly recommended for all those who want to step into the shoes of James Bond, or just have an awesome, intense gaming experience.

(Also make sure to look out for its sister game, Perfect Dark, which is also on the N64, following the same controls, and very similar weapon uses.)One of the best games of all time.
You get the thrill of beating all the bosses, playing the ocarina, and riding Epona around Hyrule. Never going to regret getting this game. One of my favorites.When I first got my Gamecube, this game was part of the Zelda collector's edition. I didn't know much about Zelda, and had only played very few games before, but was mesmerized by this game. The beginning of it is so magical and imaginative; it really draws you in to the story. I found myself playing through the beginning of it over and over again because I didn't have my memory card yet. This game takes place in a vivid fantasy world that is vibrant, ominous, beautiful, and haunting. I had never experienced anything like it. To this day I have never been so absorbed by another game.

What's really impressive is that this whole game is very consistent. The music is also exceptional. The music is better than most movie soundtracks, in my opinion. All of it perfectly accompanies what is happening in the game. So much happens in this game; it has a lot of cinematic scenes too, which really develop the story, which is an excellent tale of good versus evil.

Ocarina of Time stimulated my imagination at a young age more than just about anything I know of. There are a few films and books that would come close, but I can't think of anything that could quite surpass it. Ocarina of Time is an involving, authentic, scary, and epic adventure. Playing it for the first time makes for an unparalleled experience.The game came two days early, and is a great game. The controls are nice, Gruntilda is enormously entertaining, and you can easily spend hours on it.Banjo Kazooie is undoubtedly one of the most greatest Action-Adventure Platform video games of all time! Please don't stop selling N64 games like this, and others. This game reminds me of when I was only a toddler, now a teenager, I LOVE IT MORE! Banjo Kazooie has NOSTALGIA written all over it! Keep it coming ya'll! Glad that the majority of N64 games are all CLEAN! No Bloodshed and gore. THX!This game is without a doubt my favorite game ever!!!! I must have beat it 10 times. When I finish it, it always makes me sad, but then I start it over and it makes me happy again. The Nuts-and-Bolts version for 360 is nothing compared to the N64 version. A must have!Harder than I remember. But still fun to break out and play when feeling nostalgic.I have fond memories of this game, and still get together to play it with friends.
Before GoldenEye, first person shooters were primarily PC affairs, played with a keyboard and mouse, and multiplayer required either internet or network capabilities, which, at the time, I didn't have. GoldenEye changed this. Just like Mario Kart, you could get four players hooked in. Except instead of bumping Bowser off a race track, you were running around and laying down the heat as Bond, or one of his allies/antagonists. There are plenty of modes, arenas, and weapons to choose from, ranging from deathmatch to 'flag tag'. And once in a while you have to play with "slappers only."

In addition to the Multiplayer aspects, it has an excellent Single-Player mode. It's mission objective based (meaning that failure is entirely possible), and as difficulty increases, so do the number of objectives and conditions you have to fulfill.

The music is also notable. Sure it's entirely synhtesized/MIDI, but in those days, that was the state of the art. The music fits the scenes pretty well, mostly being varied riffs on the classic John Barry Bond theme, some being a little different.

The game contains a nice variety of weapons and plenty of secrets to unlock ( by speedrunning levels while fulfilling all objectives).

Whether you've never played this classic or you're looking back on the 'good old days', you should play it. This
is Rare's N64 Masterwork ( Perfect Dark is pretty sweet, too).I am a major player of 007 games. I have played nearly every single one, but I have to say, GoldenEye is one of the best that there is, even years and platforms later. Even though I have a GameCube with all of the other 007 games, I still to this day find myself returning to play a round of Goldeneye.

GoldenEye has a great plotline (in my opinion, even better than the movie) and long missions, which allow a lot of replay value. The graphics are a bit blurry, but that is to be expected in an N64 FPS.

Overall, I love this game, and would reccomend it to any 007 fan.As a big Zelda fan this treasure chest is magnificent and since I own all of these games it was a no brainer for me. As i've gotten older it's been harder to enjoy Zelda games because of their vastness and depth so i was really happy to see that now i don't have to worry about missing something in each game because now i have a gorgeous guide for each game from the last decade. The golden bookmark is is beautiful and the chest looks like its from Wind Waker. The guides are printed as top class books that look luxurious and are marvelous to read through. If you love LoZ and own these games get this before they're gone.I bought this game thinking it would be pretty cool and that i might play it for a  week or two and be done.  Boy was I wrong! From the moment I finally got the gamed Fired up (the other commentors on this are right, it takes forever and u are forced to create an account) I watched as it booted up I could tell right off the bat that ALOT of thought went into making this game. If you have ever played Sim city, then this game is a must try as you will easily navigate thru it and its multi layers. I have been playing htis now for a month straight, and I am STILL discovering layers of complexity in the game. There are a few things in the game that could used tweaked, but all in all this is a 5 star game.Lord,

It has been too darn long since I last played this master piece.

The single player mode is too much fun. But, the 99% of the credit goes to the multi game mode.

Great selection of weapons, nice variety of levels, Huge list of characters to choose from (from the original bond movies), fun options while playing (Bobble head characters, paint ball shooting marks).

I am telling you the game was the center of attention with friends. Large gatherings, challenges, playing till the break of dawn. I will give the game credit from keeping us off the streets =) .

I don't know if I can find this game, but boy if you can! Find three friends and Play it without mercy.

All the best,

NawafVery good FPS game, although multiplayer mode does lag. Highly recommend for your N64 collection. This one is a classic.When I purchased this game the graphics were obviously amazing with the new nintendo 64. I used to play this hours on end, doing the single player missions over and over and also having some friends over to play multiplayer. After the playstation 2 came out I pushed the nintendo 64 over for a few weeks but I found my self slowly returning to some goldeneye along with a few other great nintendo 64 games.

Now that I have a 360 I rarely play goldeneye anymore. But with the recent purchase of a n64, i have again, found myself playing goldeneye with all the wonderful, fun cheats that it offers. This game changed the way we play games, totally. It is still one of the best games I own, right next to the newest xbox 360 games.This is one of my favorite FPS's of all time. It stands right alongside Halo, and Battlefield 1942. The single player missions are done wonderfully, the enviroments are great, and the multiplayer is the best I have ever played.

BUY THIS!Another Rareware CLASSIC!  The game that defines 1st person shooter!! Like the title says, Rare did it Best.  I love the PC shooters like Doom, Quake & Duke Nukem.  But 007 did it 1000%!  The first of it's kind...perfect 3-d graphics & 360 control.  And the first game to do stealth right.  You can sneak through levels stealth with your silenced pistol, or go all out nuts with the AK.  This model of game would go on to influence ALL future fps.  PS3 & xbox fanboys take notice!  If rare hadn't come up with this formula, Modern Warfare & Halo wouldn't exist as they are!Came packaged amazingly so that the collector box did not dent or anything.
I do not mind that the cloth maps were not in the books since I've heard that the quality for them were not that great.
The bookmark and certificate all make up for it, also the "chest" the items came in.
For $107, this is a bargain! The books separately are at least $30 each.
This is a perfect LoZ collectors item.Goldeneye 007 on the now obsolete Ninetndo 64 is still to this day my favourite game of all time. Before the Nintendo 64 arrived i was a massive Sega fan, nothing anyone said could put me off my Sega obsession. And then i played Mario 64 and everything changed. I went out and swapped my Sega Saturn and all it's games for a brand new Nintendo 64 and a second hand copy of Mario 64 and i never looked back. Then allmost a year later Goldeneye 007 arrived and introduced me to a whole new genre. You see before Goldeneye, i had never played a first person shooter so it was all new to me. I also happened to be a huge James Bond fan at the time so i was quite excited about playing this for the first time, and i was not dissapointed. Everything about this game just worked so well, it had the right feel a bond game should have. It was also one of the most addictive multi-player games ever. Me and me mates would spend hours playing this game. The weapons are some of the best ever in a first person shotter. The snipper riffle in particular was awsome to use and the tank levels were so much fun. Since Goldeneye there been some trully amazing shooters including the brilliant Half-Life, but for some reason i have yet to play a game that has that same magic as Rare's wonderful game. If you haven't played this yet then you don't know what you're missing.I really should have the kids writing this I think they liked this game but yet there was something lacking in all the zelda gamesI loved this game as a kid but my older brother took it with him when he moved out.  It works perfectly and arrived in due time.  I was worried ordering a used game because some I'd ordered from places in the past haven't worked, but have absolutely no complaints!

For any who want a review of the game itself:
Of all the games we played growing up this one stood out due to its creativity and its soundtrack.  I love the variation in the worlds, from wandering the beaches of Treasure Trove Cove to the snowy winter wonderland of Freezeezy Peak.  The characters are fun, and the "violence" is very child-friendly.  My mom enjoyed listening to us play it enough she went out and bought the soundtrack so she could listen on her own!
Hats off to the makers of this game, because the level of creativity and imagination that went into it was outstanding.This is one of the best racing games ever created, it inspired a generation of great racing games. You'll have so much fun playing this :)God I get tried if writing reviews, I just want to buy a product and go on with my life
Sorry
DavidThis is one of the coolest box sets I've ever purchased. I like the minimalism of the books themselves. Hylian crest and gold embellishments around the borders, different color for each game, titles on spine. They simply look amazing. The chest box is pretty cool too, but I'm not as impressed with it since I generally prefer to display books in the traditional upright position on a bookshelf. But it's a great tie-in to the games since opening chests is always something you associate with Zelda games.

My only regrets are paying extremely high prices for individual new/sealed guides a year ago before this set was announced. I paid closer to $200 to get them all brand new on eBay. This set will surely devalue my existing ones since I'm planning on now reselling them. But I had to get this set since it included the OoT 3D guide that you can't get separately.

I really don't get why they would release this set so close to the guide for A Link Between Worlds. Did no one have the foresight to either include a blank spot for the new guide, or actually include the new guide in this set? In a way it makes the set feel instantly out of date right at release. But oh well, not that big of a deal. I will be purchasing that one separately before it also becomes sold out everywhere and triples in price like Twilight Princess did.This is one of my all time favorite games. The characters are likeable, with hilarious dialogue and an intriguing story. Also the music is some of the best I've ever heard in a video game. Also, the graphics and sound are great for N64. The controls are CRAZY precise for N64, and MAN is this game challenging! There are lots of secrets to uncover and special power ups to unlock. If only Microsoft hadn't ruined Rare...This game is a keeper to have and I wouldn't mind playing another James Bond game, which I'm getting From Russia with Love. And that means there will be more fights to the end. I just keep playing this game over again.Yeah this is one of the classics that blew away everyone (N64 MAGAZINES got better because of it!!!) and bonded friends and family for years on end. There was no other game like it. Empire magazine started writing better games reviews because of it. This was a mental good multiplayer in 1997. We all played this side by side for years. I can't say I have played anything quite like it since. Golden Eye N64. Yeah, those where the days!!! I remember this left Playstation 1 owners in awe.This is the best shoot em up on the N64. I was very impressed with the game play, the graphics, the action, the multi player fun, everything.... the only downfall about the game is I wanted more, more, more. The cheats are great when you unlock them and the best thing is you don't need a memory card, everything saves on the cartridge. RARE actualy managed to compress a game that was too big for the N64 into this game somehow, and it suprises me that it does not even use the N64 Expansion pack to do that!!! This game is not just hoursand hours of fun, but days, weeks, years . i still play this cool game even today!Golden Eye is widely considered one of the best FPS ever made. It is a great solid game, and I recommend this game to everybody.Being the third major installment of the all time great C&C seris tiberian sun was released in 1999 with enormous anticipation and fanfare. Unforunately the game didn't seem to live up to the hype but looking back today a few years later tiberian has stood the test as a fine solid game and now that it is basically at a bargain bin price i certainly think it's worth a look even for those who already own red alert 2. The main difference that i see between TS and RA2 is the look. Where the characters in RA2 are a bit too large the ones in TS may be a bit too small. RA2 has a more straight forward look much like ra1 were Ts has that cool golden dusk look. Since TS is a fantasy sci fi game almost anything goes where RA2 is based on more conventional warfare. That extra room for creative activity helps make TS a fun game. One example is the hunter seeker feature were you can create a drone attached to an explosive. This drone will take off on it's own and randomly attach itself and destroy an enemy unit or structure. You must have this feature because your opponent will. Another feature i like is the component towers were you make the towers early and later buy the defensive attachment. There's a vulcan cannon for fighting infantry, the grenade launcher and the anti air sam.
The concept for TS is the good guys, global defense initiative(GDI) vs the religious brotherhood of the nod, a fanatical terrorist group. Sounds familiar? Certainly a concept appropriate for today but the NOD is the military equal to the GDI. Both sides are distinctive and different. The GDI is more muscular and has more fire power while the nod relies on stealth and sneaky tactics. Strategy is far more important here than just cranking out more tanks than your opponent. For example the nod has an apc that can burrow under ground. Pack the thing full of infantry or engineers and sneak into the middle of an opponents camp underground only to resurface unleashing the attack. The gdi has ways to counter this however. A mobile sensor can be built that will detect the apc on radar and concrete can be placed down so the unit can't resurface in vulnerable areas of your camp. Some "new" features that differ from the original C&C and RA. A single engineer can take over an opponents building, infantry can't just be run over by vehicles and you have the deployable mcv feature that allows you to pack up your command center and move it.
Some other pros-
Being a 1999 game it doesn't require much computer.
Almost always runs smoothly.
Still a fairly vibrant online community with plenty of opponents to play.
Cheap! Only $... or $... if you also want the firestorm pack.
Very colorful and pleasant to look at. Graphics still look good compared to games that were released a couple of years later.
A 10 minute patch update that can be downloaded from the game.
A seemingly unlimited number of free mods that can be dowloaded off the internet.
The opportunity to make expensive powerful units like the mammoth tank.
There are a few negatives about the game. No naval units at all even though you have these really cool looking rivers. And a limited air force. Orca helicopters are pretty cool but that's it. Most mods are too extreme and change the game too much and there are very few maps you can download. No coop play.
Over all this is a fun game with the opportunity to change through mods. The graphics are cool and strategy is more important than with the prior C&C releases. Worth about 4 stars but at this price it gets 5.
...............socks10/10, one of the best games ever released on any console. The story-line is amazing, it captivates you swiftly. The game-play is also awesome, and the graphics, evil bosses, etc., it's just one of the best games in the market. At some point, we all wished to become Link, play a tune or two with an Occarina, and may day turn into night, or draw towards you a horse named Epona.this is a great price on this set, the treasure chest is a great addiiton. they are limited to 50k so buy it up!This was my second visit with Zelda after the original NES game. Wow. This game was SO ahead of its time in graphics, gameplay, story, everything. Seriously ground breaking stuff for when this game was released. I've played this game off and on for most of my life, first getting it around the time it was released.

It's proven to age VERY well and is fun decades after first discovering it. A genre defining game in a class all of its own. If you haven't played this game, get it.This game is one of the finest Video games ever produced, while its graphics may be some what dated by today's standards its epic story and play control are arguably better than many of today's titles.

I cannot recommend this game enough.The game that really started it all for me in the 3D genre. What an amazing racer for the N64.This is one of the best games out there, it's a classic. Banjo-Kazooie is one of the rarest and hard to find games ever, The story is really good. A witch kidnaps a beautiful girl and wants to be the prettiest of them all. Her brother and his pal Kazooie have to save her. While its a relatively easy it can still be hard in some places and there are cheat codes to help you along the way with things like Gold feathers, Red feathers and Eggs. However if you quit and save your game then the cheat has to be reentered. While the game does have it's flaws its still really fun to play. The game essentially is very easy next to its sequel game, Banjo Tooie. The levels all relatively easy, however it is very easy to die in this game, on top of that like other reviewers on Amazon have said about dying and losing notes and recollecting them is toldly true. Clarkers Cavern was the worst because you only have 6 things of air and have to get extra air, from a fish blowing bubbles. The level that is the most challenging of them all was Click Clock Wood. Because of going from the changing seasons and having to grab notes from all seasons that was tough for me. However the most challenging and difficult part of this game, is beating Grunty herself. That is the most challenging part of this game. because you have to hit her with eggs and unfortunately its a huge flaw on Rare's part for not putting a homing shooter like they do in the sequel game. Overall despite it's many flaws Nintendo and Rare have done an excellent job making a game that is graphically pleasing, and the gameplay is awesome. Buy it you won't regret it.OMGosh !! . .  My son .. grandson .. and great-grandson . . all three are totally enjoying this game soooooo much.  I'm not any kind of a game player but it makes me feel so good just watching their enjoyment.  Thank you for a product that is not full of all that blood and gore that so many of the games have now days.Loved it!!! One of the best games in this genre. Good story, and even has the guy from the first Terminator who protects the woman (can't think of his name) as one of the main actors in the cutscenes, and James Earl Jones. High production values.  The game play is top notch.I am writing this review from what i thought of it before red alert 2 came out.  this is a great game with a pretty good story line, though it lacks graphics.  Westwood online (the multiplayer sever) is also very good.  if your lookign to buy a good RTS i recomend red alert 2, but if you don't want to spend the money on RA@ this is still a great game.This is this is the first strategy game I have ever liked that I played, so maybe I'm partial to it ... but I love it!  I don't understand why some  people are so crushed when their "favorite" game series puts out  a bad game.  It's not that big of a deal.  For all you Red Alert buffs, Red  Alert 2 will be out soon so chill out for a minute.  There are a ton of  different strategies to play this game with so it becomes extremely  addictive.  Once you get the basics down ... the sky is pretty much the  limit on strategies you can use so this adds replay value to the game.  It  will definitely keep you busy until the next installment by Westwood.  The  online play is great and easy to use.  I haven't even played the single  player game because I just can't get enough of the online play.  So unlike  the other people who are saying they hate it (but they probably still play  it often), I like it an awful lot.Well, it seems that those idiots who gave TS a low rating was because they  thought TS reused Red Alerts units. That is completely wrong . TS is set in  a futuristic world with advanced units. Red Alert was a PREQUEL to the  original C&C and was set throughout the Cold War. TS does not use  standard tanks and the new units were made as it would have been seen in  the year TS took place which was 2030. This is especially true with GDI and  there titans, disruptors, firestrom defense, rpg towers, MMK II and a whole  lot more. Nod has has the cyborgs, underground units, and and the banshee  aircraft etc. Now, are these the same units from RA, i don't think so.  Westwood retained a couple of units from the original C&C such as the  devil's tougue and light tank but they upgraded the functions of these  units to please gamers. Nothing from this game was copied from RA- trust  me. As for Starcraft some say its better than TS and some say it isnt. I  personally hate that game. Its way more complex to understand than TS  simple interface, no deformidable terrain, you have to RIGHT CLICK to  deselect units (very awkward), structures take extremely long to build - as  well as units, those same structures look like they have legs(terran  barracks and engineering bay). I also have no idea what the storyline is  about (no real actors - jus  bad FMVs).I could name a whole lot more but it  would take up too much space in this review. The only single thing i like  is the marine responses which give u a good laugh now and then but it still  gets repetitive after a while which is common in almost all RTS games.  Sure, Starcraft is an original game with new features that pleases people  just like the old C&C. some people ask for too much in a sequel and  when they find what they haven't been looking for, they disgrace the game.  We'll see what sequel is in store for Starcraft but for now, if you're a  serious fan of C&C's then pick up a copy of TS- you'll find an  intersting game with a whole bunch of new features including some old time  favs that would have remembered.This game along with Mario 64 and Donkey Kong 64 basically use the same basic style with different characters. They are are a blast even now, though it takes playing it now to realize how clumsy the camera system on these games was. I don't know how I managed to get all the notes while playing on the N64, I find it next to impossible now to have the patience to navigate some of the last levels with the slowness and precision needed to prevent falling off a cliff and having to spend 5 minutes getting back up, or worse, dying, in which case you lose all your notes in the level and have to collect them from scratch.  Thus I  quicksave often.

I guess I no longer am as good as I once was at these games.  Still, this is one of my N64 favorites from my high school years basically.Tiberian sun is an example of how a real time game should be.  Great campains where you can be either Nod or GDI.  This game also has great skrimishes.  Where you can play the computer on a diffrent level of  difficulty and can play anwhere from 1-7 enimies.  With alot of diffrent  units and buildings this game is not to be missed.One of the best games on the N64, it combines action, adventure, puzzle and other elements as you go through awsome based levels to beat it.This is most likely one of the best N64 Games Ever made, Its way better then Super mario 64 in everyway (and possibly Zelda too), its rich, colorful and very addicting, The soundtracks are also one of my favorite things about the game- it has a happy and also very awesome tune to them making them addictive (you just cant stop listening to it!), and the world designs (10 total I believe) are all very Beautiful and Gorgeous, I've beaten the game to 100% and I still go back to the worlds and gaze in thier amazement, its just really cool, this game is a MUST HAVE for any Nintendo 64 player, Im serious if you don't have this, your missing out BIG time.

PS. check out its Sequel Banjo-Tooie after you've bought this!I've never really had enough of an attention span to play "collect the item" games, but this particular one is really great. It has enough action and puzzle involved to hold the attention of even a gamer like me (with, honestly and unfortunately, a terribly short attention span) for hours at a time, with enough elements of finding things you'll need later to keep you playing and replaying each level. A truly great game, and I wish more of the sort were made these days. I feel way too young to be saying this, but they just don't make them like this anymore!
On a side note, the cartridge I received has some... Interesting connections. I'd guess the previous owner loved and played it as much as I do haha.Goldeneye 007, Killer Instint, The Donkey Kong Country series, Conker, Diddy Kong Racing....those were the good ol' days when Rare was still relevant.  Before they sold their souls to Microsoft and lost all credibility.  And in my opinion, the peak of Rare was with the Banjo games (kazooie & tooie) on Nintendo 64.  Kazooie, to me, defines the N64 3-D platformer.  While many will say Mario 64, which is a near perfect game.  I think the Nostalgia sometimes forgets how much BETTER Banjo Kazooie was.  Back in '98 rare was on a roll.  This game was yet another grandslam.  A brand new franchise, cut from scratch.  And it's absolutely amazing.  I won't go into all the details and story as my fellow reviewers have already made clear.  All I can add is this game is easily one of the best games of the late 90's.  It was a game I picked up and loved immediately.  My only question is WHAT the **** happened to rare?!!  They were so amazing with Nintendo, then dropped bomb after bomb for the X-Box consoles.  I'm not a Nintendo fanboy, so don't even go there.  But Rare took a big dookie all over this series with the newer games on Microsoft consoles.  The 1998 game will always be the best.  And I hope someday the brothers who originally ran Rare will comeback to bring the infamous "Banjo Threeie" to life on any console!!This game is fantastic. Personally, I love it. Have you ever played a game where an evil witch is ugly and wants to be evil so she steals a beautiful girl named Tooty to try and transfer the beauty to the ugly witch? Also, have you ever played a game where a bear and bird have to collect golden puzzle pieces, musical notes, dinosaurs mixed with teddy bears named Jinjos? Also, have you ever played a game where a shaman transforms the bear and bird into various forms? Well, if you haven't, this is where to start. This game is perfect for all ages. I would recommend this game to anyone who has a N64.If Mario 64 was good than Banjo was Mario perfected.
Amazing game.
Another gem from years ago that I played start to finish multiple times.
Amazing levels.
Perfect control.
Great but hokey music.

Some people were annoyed by the "voices".
I thought they were hilarious.
The camera does get a little crazy here and there but this was 3D platforming in it's beginning and really, the camera is about as perfect as a 3D platforming camera can be.

To summarize...
Great gameplay.
Awesome graphics for the time.
An ending riddle that had me looking for a way in for weeks on end.
(A real bummer that the two games DIDN'T link after all).
That's probably the biggest disappointment that all those mystery areas were never revealed by the N64.
Otherwise....another great platformer from the golden age of platforming, collect a thons.
Highly recommended.Rare just has an extraordinary knack at making great games. Banjo Kazooie was released in 1998 and has been considered a classic since, and I too must agree with this well deserved honor. Well, why do I find this game fantastic? Well, I'll explain that in my review.

First off let's talk about Banjo Kazooie's story. Banjo's sister Tooty is kidnapped by the wicked witch Gruntilda. Gruntilda has planned on swapping Tooty's beauty to her, but not if Banjo and his friend Kazooie can help it! Okay, seriously this story is pretty lame, but hey! It's a game. In My opinion, no matter how good the graphics are, or how great the story is, it all boils down to one thing. And that's gameplay. And Banjo Kazooie has fantastic gameplay.

In Banjo Kazooie you play as Banjo and...well...Kazooie, and Kazooie stays inside Banjo's backpack at all times, but she's not useless. They both work as a team and learn many moves, which brings us to our next character, Bottles. Bottles the mole helps you learn different moves to help you defeat Gruntilda and rescue Tooty. But do you just walk up to Gruntilda and save Tooty? Not at all, there are several items to collect to defeat Gruntilda. The most important one is jiggies, there are ten jiggies in each world and you need several items to collect them. Along the way Bottles teaches you to use certain items, such as eggs to shoot through Kazooie's mouth, or how to fly when you collect enough feathers. Another essential item to collect is mumbo tokens. Gruntilda has hidden mumbo tokens all around her enormous lair and if you collect enough you can visit the great shaman Mumbo Jumbo and he will transform you into different creatures to help you along your journey. So you have plenty to do in this game, I can guarantee that. Another essential item are music notes, in each world one hundred music notes are scattered all around and if you collect enough you can open new doors in Gruntilda's massive lair. But I do find it to become quite tedious sometimes. Why? You may ask. Because each time you leave and re-enter a world all the notes are still there, no matter how many you've collected. Let's say you've collected ninety-nine out of the hundred possible music notes to collect, well if you leave the world and re-enter, you would have to collect all ninety nine notes again, you couldn't go searching for the one music note you hadn't collected. And while yet this situation is highly unlikely, it's still annoying no matter how many notes you have to re-collect. Fortunately, if you don't care about collecting all one hundred music notes, you don't have to because the game automatically saves the amount you've collected.

There aren't too many moves to learn in Banjo Kazooie, and it didn't take me long to master them. And there aren't many control problems, actually the controls are almost perfect. But I did get frustrated with a feature that was not added in the game, I wish Banjo could hang on to ledges, there was many times in Clanker's Cavern where I could almost reach a ledge,  but it was just barely out of reach because I couldn't hang on to the ledge. While yet this wasn't too big of a deal, I think that feature could of made the game a little less frustrating. I was also very pleased with camera control, there are three angles to choose from except in a few rare areas and I found it easy to maneuver.

I told you this game was made in 1998, right? Well the graphics are terrific. The different atmospheres to this game make it twice more enjoyable. You can relax in broad daylight in Treasure Trove Cove, or wonder at dark in Mad Monster Mansion. And I thought the last world Click Clock Wood was absolutely brilliant, it's a forest and you collect jiggies in the four season's spring, summer, fall and winter. I especially loved Freezeezy Peak, and it was so much fun climbing the huge snowman.

I also loved the music in this game, each beat is catchy and it never got repetitive for me, and the sound effects were great as well...well the only complaint I could have is that there is no dialogue in the game, but I actually found the weird sounds from the characters kind of funny and I loved the insults between Kazooie and Bottles and Gruntilda's rhymes cracked me up, that's another reason I love this game, it has such a charm to it, not like some newer games, to many games have steered away from being innocent and charming, and this game has this quality.

What more can I say? This game is fun to play, it has great replay value, the music, sounds and the worlds all sound and look absolutely fantastic and the difficult final fight with Gruntilda at the end was indeed terrific as well. It took me thirty hours to complete (without a guide) and I had so much fun solving puzzles and this game can test your mind at certain times. I will admit I did need help online for a few jiggies, but the ending sequence makes the occasional frustrations all worthwhile, very satisfying if you ask me. I'm now very anxious to play Banjo Tooie, as it's been claimed to be even better than the original. Banjo Kazooie is highly recommended, this game is indeed a classic.Positive:
+ gameplay is very deep with new elements added all the time
+ worlds are very diverse and have a lot of content
+ music tracks are great and change in style when you're in different spots
+ sharp controls that work well for the most part

Negative:
- you have to start your note count every time you re-enter a world
- camera doesn't always give you the best view you need

Super Mario 64 revolutionized the 3-D platformer; and the amount of people who would deny that are probably fewer than the words in this sentence. But when a revolution comes, what's the point of it being so revolutionary unless something comes of it later on? In video games, a game is a revolution indeed when other games take the basic model and take it to a whole new level, and possibly delivering a game that's even better than the root. Whether it really is a beneficiary of the beloved Mario 64 or Rare is just really, really good at making games, that is where we find Banjo-Kazooie.

Games of the platforming genre aren't exactly known for their amazing stories, and Banjo fares no different. Banjo's little sister Tooty is kidnapped by the stereotypical green witch Gruntilda. She has some sort of weird machine that will supposedly transfer Tooty's beauty to herself, and this will leave Banjo's poor sister ugly in the process! So Banjo and his grumpy bird friend Kazooie (who for some reason lives in Banjo's backpack) set out to Gruntilda's lair to save Tooty. The story doesn't take itself very seriously at all but there's a great, humorous tone to it that more than makes up for the lack of depth.

The game doesn't move from place to place at all; the whole thing takes place in Gruntilda's huge lair, key word being 'huge.' This one location is just so big but perfectly balanced with the ease of traversing that it makes the perfect setting for a platforming game. There is a whole lot of variety within the mountain lair, with a sewer, swamp, graveyard, and many other spots. The areas of different theme will almost always take you to one of the game's nine worlds, which are all big, diverse, and have a lot of stuff to find. You'll find yourself at a mountain to begin the game, then moving on to a beach, and later a snow area and haunted mansion-like world, and so on. The game never really runs out of new material to throw at you, which is really nice, even if most of the themes are found in many other games of the genre, too.

Another way Banjo always keeps itself fresh is with the moves you can learn. In most of the levels you can find a mole named Bottles who will teach you a new move if you can find him. These moves are sometimes confined to certain spots or items you can put on, and they all work together perfectly to make the game progress logically. You have to unlock some of these abilities, such as flight and invincibility, to get deeper into Gruntilda's lair, and also to accomplish more in the worlds. The game controls very well too, even with all the added moves, and it doesn't get too complicated. One issue though is with the camera, which you can control the angle of but you still sometimes can't get the viewpoint that's just right for a room or area.

But the core of the game stays the same, no matter how many moves you learn or different worlds you visit. The main objects to collect are jiggies, which are basically pieces of jigsaw puzzles that, when put together, open the door to a new world. Ten of these can be found in each level along with 100 notes, which open up doors to new areas of the lair. Unfortunately the game's note total is merely a combined high score of how many notes you collect in each level; each time you re-enter a world the note count restarts. This is pretty annoying sometimes, and it would have been nice to just keep all the notes so you don't have to recollect all of them again to advance your total note count. Thankfully the jiggies are extremely well-balanced as far as how hard they are to get; in the first world most of them are sitting on the ground like Easter eggs, but as you progress through the game you have to work much harder to earn your way to more worlds.

Graphically Banjo kept up to date well enough. The visuals are just a tad choppy, but they still look good enough, and that sort of thing happened all the time in the N64 era. Sometimes objects that are a little ways away won't appear on screen until you get closer, which thankfully doesn't prove to be too annoying but still would be good if fixed. Despite these few flaws, though, the graphics look great considering the times.

One of Banjo's shining areas aside from gameplay is the sound. The characters speak in a gibberish sort of language (with text shown on the bottom of the screen) and this might annoy some but it's still good to add personality to each character. The sound effects are all good too, no complaints there. The really cool part of the sound, though, is the music. The tracks are cool enough as they are, but when you're standing on a different spot or in a different area, like if you're under water or at the entrance to a different world, the music style and sound totally changes while keeping the same song. Then as you exit the spot the music transitions back to the normal style, and this effect may sound small without actually hearing it but trust me when I say it's really, really cool.

Mario 64 may have been the revolution, but some of the games that derived bits and pieces from it were possibly even better, in my opinion. Banjo-Kazooie is one such game, adding a lot of depth and value to an already proven formula. It may not be the game everyone looked to for inspiration in the game-making world, but Banjo-Kazooie is a real gem from Rare's glory days on the N64, and it makes me want to play the sequel even if it is ten years old.

Gameplay: 9.5
Graphics: 8.5
Sound: 9.5
Camera & Control: 8.5
Value: 9.5

FINAL SCORE: 9.2/10I really love this game that is quite similar in concept to Super Mario 64. Though it is a lot simpler than its successor Banjo Tooie (in that one there are many types of eggs plus you can change characters) but it is a lot more fun. The successor had a lot more dialog that you had to wade through.

The final battle with Grunty is one of the toughest obstacles I have encountered in a video game and I still have not figured out a way to beat her without the unlimited gold feather cheat.I really love this game that is quite similar in concept to Super Mario 64.  Though it is a lot simpler than its successor Banjo Tooie (in that one there are many types of eggs plus you can change characters) but it is a lot more fun.  The successor had a lot more dialog that you had to wade through.

The final battle with Grunty is one of the toughest obstacles I have encountered in a video game and I still have not figured out a way to beat her without the unlimited gold feather cheat.After Rareware turned GoldenEye into a system-seller for the Nintendo 64, it broke out again with the action-platformer Banjo-Kazooie. An ugly old witch named Gruntilda has taken Banjo's sister Tootie and plans to suck the beauty out of her. Banjo and Kazooie (the bird that lives in his backpack) must brave Gruntilda's fortress to get Tootie back.

The plot is a little sugary and kiddie, but it's really just an excuse to send gamers on a Mario 64-style adventure, where completing tasks and puzzles in worlds will open up new worlds to explore. Yes it's pretty much a clone of Mario, but at the same time it refines and enhances the Mario formula. Players have more unique special moves at their disposal, and these are much more essential to navigating the environment and solving puzzles. Worlds are beautiful, creative, and expansive, tossing you into a room with a giant shark, a huge snowman, or a forest where you can actively move between the seasons. It's all topped by memorable music that changes to fit the environment, fades, or grows louder depending on where you are in the stage.

This is a game that has aged gracefully. Yes it's on an old system, but the art design and music still hold up well like the classic Mario titles, and gameplay is solid. A masterful experience thats supplemented quite well by its sequel, Banjo Tooie.This is one game that will test your skills, on how to figure things out, but if you want to take the easy way out you can always get bottles the neer sighted mole's help. One thing i like about this game is that when Bottle & Kazooie confront each other they always throw smack at each other which makes the storyline more funnier. This is a pretty cool game, it's worth buying. I had fun playing it, i will buy it.

If you liked this game check out all of the other Banjo & Kazooie games.Banjo-Kazooie is an action adventure game in the style of Super Mario 64. However, it is similar, yet also quite different. Rather than having most of the skills you need at the beginning of the game, you learn a few in the very beginning, and then learn the remaining skills throughout the first six worlds (there are nine, but they are much larger than the fifteen in Mario 64). Notes are like coins, and jiggies are like stars. However, rather than six stars in each world, there are 10 jiggies to find in each world, and 10 in the witch's castle (much like the castle secret stars). Also, you can transform in five of the nine massive levels with the help of the crazy witch doctor Mumbo-Jumbo. Generally, it will help you get at least 1 Jiggy in the world, and they can do things that Banjo and Kazooie can't on their own. Throughout the game, you get to transform into a termite (level 1), an alligator (level 4), a walrus (level 5), a pumpkin (level 7), and a bee (level 9).

The nine massive worlds are each very different from eachother. But how fun are they? Well, they're all very fun to play in, mainly because the tunes in each world really match the mood, from eerie funeral dirges to peppy shipyard music, this game has that and then some. Overall, I highly recommend it. If you read my previous review of the game Banjo-Tooie, you'd see why I enjoyed the sound effects so much. Once more, I highly recommend this game.I have never played anything like this since. Everything from Sly  Racoon, to Ratchet and Clank, owe it to this.

Wicked witch Gruntilda takes Banjo's sister to hey layer, miles away in a realistic 3D cartoon world.

Banjo is a bear with Kazooie a bird in his backpack that can help him jump and fly and basically you learn to do lots of things with it. You solve puzzles via action and collect tolkens across lovely maps. Mumbo Jumbo transforms Banjo into some other creatures along the way. You can fly. It was amazing. A full adventure all the way to end. We played it for months and I have NEVER played anything like it again. The makers of Donkey Kong released it at the best time. It is now up to the future generations to make adventure concepts better than this one. This is one of the best N64 games ever.I am great at solving games i get within either a day or a couple of days so i am constantly buying new games. Well this one has me stumped. I can't get past this certain level so right now I am giving it a break. LOL. The game is fantastic. More for tweens, teens, adults. Not little kids.All in all, this is the best platform game that I have played in a long time. Of course, it follows the basic formula of a platformer - kidnapped female, evil castle, jump on enemies, etc. But the reason the formula still exists is due to the fact that, occasionally, it works really well. Banjo-Kazooie is a case where the cliche works to perfection. Although we question Nintendo's blatant violation of the genetic cloning ban put in place by the president, they did so for a good cause, and a damn good game.There is not much I can say except this is THE BEST GAME FOR N64. Not too easy, not too hard, tons of levels and objectives and the cutest cast of characters (Jinjos rock) If you like adventure games, Banjo-Kazooie is for you!Now that Banjo & Kazooie is over five years old a sequel now exist and there is likely another game coming. HOPEFULLY! The game only for the N64 is one of the most amazing platformers ever. In fact it's one of the most amazing games in any genre period. It took a while to beat the game, but it was well worth it. If your not familiar with B & K, let me explain.. Banjo is a bear with a handy backpack. Kazooie is a bird who hangs out in Banjo's backpack. With the many special moves Kazooie pops out of the pack quite a bit. Together they work through many HUGE levels collecting items like puzzle pieces (100 hidden through out the entire game), musical notes (100 on each level), little Jinjo people (5 on each level), there are also Mumbo skulls to find, they allow you (once you have the required amount) to change form, you must visit the mumbo skull guy quite often. Changing form is mandatory, for instance B & K cannot fit into some smaller places. Turning into an ant allows you to go into a small hole where prizes are not reachable otherwise. Vast and adventurous, B & K is impossible to dislike even if your not a fan of platformers. Even if your just watching, it's entertaining. I'll give you an idea of how effective the story is. BANJO & KAZOOIE is THE WIZARD OF OZ of vidoe games.Rareware - words fail me. Again they have made a quality title beyond imagination. Creative beyond a shadow of a doubt. 95 % of people agree, that Banjo-Kazooie is a landmark title with everything the N64 has to offer, and that it is worthy of 5 out of 5 stars . While developed early in N64's lifespan, the graphics stand out beyond many titles recently released. The sound is equally as impressive (for N64), and the game has been cleverly melded with it to make you feel as the atmosphere of the game has changed, depending on your situation.
I am proud to say many people love this game. Many of my friends still play it occasionally, however few have beaten it all the way. This game is solid for 50+ hours of gaming, but only when you are willing to get every last puzzle piece and musical note, and every other item. Some people dislike it, and do not be fooled; a 27 year male old who listens to ultra-hard rock and loves games with extreme violence and/or nudity will NOT like this game. It is by no means for everybody. Many gamers, from preschool to high school will like it, but not everybody.
The controls are easy enough to master, and any avid or casual gamer will easily master them with a little practice. The sound is superb. The graphics are good, for an N64 title. There is not a dull moment in this game, and the attention to detail is amazing. The puzzles, the meat of the game, are easy enough for older kids to have a challenge and not to hard for younger kids. The puzzle peices, your reward for completeing a puzzle, are well hidden. The musical notes, the only way to advance to the next portion of the overworld, are challenging to find. The most fun part of the game, visiting Mumbo, is quite enjoyable. He transforms you into various forms. A fat walrus, a termite, and even a bumble bee. There isn't really an advancing story, but that's okay. You get an occasional cinematic, but it's pretty basic.
The story goes...
The evil witch, Gruntilda, is happily hanging out atop her mountain WHEN... The "cute" Tootie, sister of Banjo the bear, strolls by. Overcome with jealousy, she sees Tootie is quite a bit "cuter" than her. So she kidnapps Banjo's sister and creates a machine to suck Tootie's "cuteness" out and put it into her. Banjo and his sidekick breegull, Kazooie set off to find Tootie. A mole named Bottles helps them learn some new moves to defeat various obsticles in the game.
Well, I hope you enjoy this game. Thanks for reading this review, and until next time...
CRIMSON|REDthis is the best n64 game ever made next to the wonderful ocarina of time.i beat everything in it when i was 9-i collected all the jinjos,got all the puzzle pieces,etc.i bought it when i was 8.it's an amazing,fun game.i just feel tormented that i had to use the players guide to beat the 2nd,banjo-tooie.i try not to think about it.but this game is extremly hard and grueling-but in a good way.the levels are extremly detailed and fun.my favorite is the graveyard/haunted house level.(i forgot it's name.)buy it.i command you.Like Super Mario and Donkey Kong this game is a classic. The good gameplay and graphics pay off.  This is worth the money.If you own a N64 this game has to be in your collection. Not only is it a classic that offers countless replayability, but it is a great competitive/party game to battle/play with friends and family.I bought this microphone to further enhance my Rock Band experience.  I was not disappointed.  It kept in tune well (which was a problem I saw with other microphones) and was light enough to not be a burden of any kind.  I don't mind that it is not wireless, since I wouldn't move around much anyways.  Also, the fact that it doesn't have buttons didn't bother me, mainly because I don't mind using a controller to navigate.  I do think it could have been packaged better, but I don't fault the microphone for it.  Overall, a very simplistic, yet functional, design that works well.This game arrived quickly and as described. I am happy with this purchase. Thank youThe best Mario Kart still to this day!  I have played all of them and this one still holds up as my favorite, even if the roster isn't the most robust.  Some of the best tracks and the music on Rainbow road is just amazing.This game will teach you who your friends truly are as the blue shell destroys freindships and breaks bonds of companionship you never thought could be broken.Love this game, came on time , works perfectly on my n64..no glitches no freezes..just great play..i recommendWorks great with Xbox 360. I have 2 of these using Xbox usb hub and have no problems using with rockband. Not very good if sharing a mic from sides, works best by pointing voice directly on top of mic.I have played the old anno 1701 AND 1503.  this game looks great but is more complex than the previous versions of the game. I found a lot of things lacking such as the sources of power and an inability to store energy with batteries or regenertive fuel cells as buildings in the game need power. Trade is about the same. My main beef with this it requires an internet connection. Other than that it has wonderful artistry and graphics. It is the same as anno 1701 but set in a future world where global warmming as flood the land and resource scarcity has sent human kind to look to the deep ocean for valuable minerals. I recoment the deep ocean expansion or complete if you get this. I found the ai instructor a little corny but other than that the game has some real polish. I wrote my 2 cents worth on suggestions on anno 2070 wiki and you can read 3 pages on that for game ideas I had.